Meeting: DenverCityCouncil_09302019
Date: 2019-09-30

---

Speaker 0: An amendment for a vote and amendments. All right. On 921. All right. Madam Secretary, I think Councilman Sawyer is stepped out for her proclamation. Can we do Councilman Flynn's first? All right. If you could put 921 on our screens.
Speaker 0: And Councilwoman CdeBaca, if you will, please put Council Bill 921 on the floor.
Speaker 3: I move that council bill 921 be placed upon final consideration and do pass.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Flynn. Your motion to amend.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. I moved to amend Council Bill 19, Dash 921 with the following particulars on page two, strike line seven and eight, and renumbered subsection 24, dash 401. Accordingly, on page six, strike lines four through seven one, line eight, strike C and replace with B, strike lines 12 through 19 one, line 20, strike Perin three
Speaker 4: and replace with Perin two and on line 32, strike 422, Perin B Perin three and replace with 422 Parente Perin two.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. It has been moved and seconded comments by members of Council Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: I can't believe I have to comment. Nobody understood that the the meat behind all those striking and additions and rememberings was that I fully support this bill's main intent, which is to make it illegal for retailers who sell tobacco products to sell to people under 21.
Speaker 4: Right now, the ages 18 to 21, I fully support that. I think I and a number of us were a little taken by surprise with some other elements in the bill, which may be which may be subject of a broader discussion, which should be subject to a broader discussion, but were included in this bill.
Speaker 4: And that's adding distancing requirements to the sellers of tobacco products. And if this were to pass without this amendment tomorrow morning, 84% of every store that sells Cigarets, every 7-Eleven, every King Soopers, every corner store and Diamond Shamrock will find itself in violation.
Speaker 4: We have a grandfathering provision in here. And we were told by the agency that while it's a simple matter to keep track of 84% of all the stores in Denver from year to year who would have to reapply to keep their grandfathered status when the principal goal is just not sell to people under 21.
Speaker 4: The goal isn't to to reduce the number of stores that sell to people over 21. At least we weren't told that was the goal, but that could be the effect of this. And the number of stores, particularly smaller neighborhood groceries and outlets like that, for whom selling tobacco legally to customers over 21 may provide a good part
Speaker 4: of their profit margin and and their revenue for the year. This is something I think this is a policy shift that really should have had broader discussion rather than being embedded in a an ordinance that says it's illegal to sell to under 21.
Speaker 4: Those stores will lose their license if they sell to under 21. And I think right now that's sufficient. And I would welcome a broader discussion subsequently. So what this amendment does is it takes out only two of those prohibited locations, daycares, because right now, the way it's written, if a if there is a corner store within a
Speaker 4: thousand feet of a daycare facility, remembering that daycares can be established in people's homes, they can be established from time to time. They can move around. I don't know many toddlers who are going in and trying to pass themselves off, as you know, 18 year olds these days.
Speaker 4: But daycare seemed not to be appropriate. And it also takes out the distancing between and among. The stores themselves. So if you have a store on the corner and right within 500 feet, there's a King Soopers, which is a category killer as far as sales of cigarets.
Speaker 4: Suddenly, that small retailer will find himself in a situation of being grandfathered and having to reapply every year for that status in order to keep it. I don't believe those are necessary at this time and there should have been a broader discussion rather than learning about this when it came to counsel in the committee process.
Speaker 4: We are. This amendment does not affect the distancing requirements that are established in the ordinance from schools, places where children 18 to 21 and under 18 are known to congregate. So rec centers, pools and schools. That's kept in the bill that distancing requirements simply takes out the daycares and the distancing among the retailers themselves.
Speaker 4: And I would ask members to please consider supporting this change and then engender a broader discussion as to whether this is a regimen that we should have. And let's have the discussion on that and not embedded within an ordinance that simply wants to stop selling cigarets to people under 21.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, gentlemen. Councilman Hines.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. If someone in. Here. Who could speak about the in someone here who's in favor of the the proposed bill and could talk a bit about distancing requirements. And demographics regarding cigaret vendors. Thank you. And also, I guess the first question I would have is about the stakeholder process itself.
Speaker 5: So if you could, you know, mention who you are and who you represent, if anyone. And and then I'll I'll I'll continue.
Speaker 10: You bet. My name is Tristan Sanders. I'm a public health manager in the Department of Public Health and Environment for the city. And I worked with a group across the city to develop this bill. We did do a stakeholder engagement process over the course of about six weeks, eight weeks.
Speaker 10: We invited every single retailer in the city and county of Denver that we know of to come to two open listening sessions where we discussed the main provisions of the bill and including the proximity restrictions. We took feedback from everybody.
Speaker 10: We had a lively discussion about the merits of the different points. And what is before you is what we came up with, given their feedback.
Speaker 5: And so I think I heard you say this. I just want to make sure that I didn't misunderstand. So there were retailers who were invited to the stakeholder process. And the stakeholder process did include the thousand foot setback, which includes daycares and other retailers.
Speaker 10: Yeah, so we invited all retailers. We originally had proposed a 1000 foot setback for all of the proximity restrictions, including from other retailers. And based on the feedback that that would be too restrictive as far as the commercial property available for new retailers, we did some mapping and we looked at the number of parcels across the city
Speaker 10: that would conform and not conform with those restrictions with a number of different scenarios, eliminating them altogether, looking at 500 feet, looking at a thousand feet. And again, what's before you is what was essentially agreed upon as a as a compromise to move forward with those distancing restrictions.
Speaker 5: So was the setback for retailers, is that a different number besides 1000?
Speaker 10: Yeah. So the youth facing facilities, the city owned rec centers, pools and schools is 1000 feet, the daycare centers is a thousand feet and the distance from other retailers is 500 feet based on our revised bill.
Speaker 5: So the 500 foot setback does that is still does that also include 84% of all sooner store owners?
Speaker 10: Yeah. With with those proximity restrictions, 84% of current retailers would be needing to be grandfathered into those proximity restrictions. And just to comment about that, everybody has to apply for a license. Everybody would have to apply yearly to renew that license.
Speaker 10: The grandfathering restriction is specific to their location. So as soon as we have the addresses of people that are grandfathered on July 1st of next year, that is the list of addresses that are grandfathered in perpetuity. That won't change.
Speaker 5: It. Oh, well, that's okay. Thank you for that. So if I am one of the grandfathered addresses and I forget to reapply a month late or a year late, then I still get my application renewed.
Speaker 10: Not if it lapses. So the location, as long as it's a continuous license, would be grandfathered.
Speaker 5: But everyone has to apply every year.
Speaker 10: Everyone has to apply every year.
Speaker 5: So it isn't as if some folks are having to remember and other folks aren't having to remember. Every business owner has to apply and has. Is this different or is this something that has happened like in the past as well?
Speaker 5: So like is it part of a part of the process everyone must renew their. Even in, you know, last year or the year before the year before that.
Speaker 10: This is fairly standard practice for licenses. It is an annual renewal and there's a process that exercises as license takes to notify people of when the renewal date is. They get notification, you know, a few months ahead of time, a few weeks ahead of time at the date that it's expiring.
Speaker 10: They get notified at the record, but the address, the email, the phone number, etc..
Speaker 5: So I think that at least three notifications using multiple communication methods.
Speaker 10: Maybe you. So I think we're working out those details of the license, but I think we can probably say at least two notifications leading up to the point of the expiration.
Speaker 5: Okay. And then would there be at least one additional notification after the expiration? Hey, did you forget since. Yeah, well before the. Hey, you've lost your license. Is there a a did you forget you don't have a whole lot of time to apply.
Speaker 9: It's on.
Speaker 5: Sorry. Yeah. Please go to the microphone if you're going to talk. Thanks.
Speaker 3: Sorry for the backseat chatter. I'm Eric Rogers from Department of Excise and Licenses. It does tend to vary by license type because we are moving some of our licenses online. So for example, our short term rental licenses get several automated reminders that your license is needing to be renewed.
Speaker 3: Some of our other licenses that aren't online yet get fewer than that. And so I'm sorry, I can't I'm not sure exactly how many each license type gets, but this license would be going online. So I would my understanding would be that it would get at least as many as short term rentals, which I believe is three
Speaker 5: . And would there be one more notice? You know, like you're you've lapsed. If you want to apply, you better do it quickly. Otherwise your grandfather status will be gone.
Speaker 3: I don't believe we have done that with other licenses, but that's definitely something we could look into.
Speaker 5: Okay, thank you. I want to go back to the 84% and the distancing requirements.
Speaker 1: So.
Speaker 5: Why is there so 84% of all the stores are located next to each other? That seems like a lot of stores if they're, you know, at all, the city is jammed up within 500 feet of one another. Is it can you tell me, are the and those watching can you tell all of us a little bit more
Speaker 5: about what those neighborhoods are like or, you know, fire? Why are all the retailers close to each other?
Speaker 10: So we we have certain parts of the city where there is a tremendous amount of density of retailers. It happens to correlate with the density of youth living in our city, and it happens to correlate with the number of violations in our compliance program of sales to youth.
Speaker 10: And there's a lot of research and data that suggests this isn't coincidence, that where there is more opportunity, you will have more lack of compliance with selling to youth. In fact, there are three sections of our city, I believe, in Council District one, seven and nine where there is a three mile square radius that has each one
Speaker 10: of them has over 20 retailers just in that three mile square radius. As opposed to that, there's actually an entire council districts that only has 17 total retailers. So it varies significantly across the city. And the only way that we can ensure that it doesn't become more dense after July 1st of next year would be with these
Speaker 10: restrictions in place.
Speaker 5: So I think I heard you say and again, I want to make sure that I that I understood it correctly. You said that the locations of cigaret retailers is highly correlated with locations where youth live.
Speaker 10: That's correct.
Speaker 5: Is there a way you can statistically identify that as opposed to just the value statement? Is there, you know, like. Well, I mean, I guess you've you've got maps, but are there other ways that you can describe that in a numeric fashion?
Speaker 5: That's. That's fine. I'm going to get on the spot. No. Okay. Well, fair enough. That's all I have. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Sawyer.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you for all of your hard work on this. As a parent and the city of Denver, I'm really grateful to you for all that you're doing to protect our kids. This is really fantastic.
Speaker 6: And so I really appreciate that. But that said, I also see Councilman Flynn's perspective on moving these motions. And for two reasons. I think, you know, when we were talking about the daycare centers come 2040 and Blueprint are really telling us, you know, that we want to have more local businesses in neighborhoods, in walking distance of our
Speaker 6: homes to get people out of their cars at the same time. Our our information is telling us that more daycare centers are moving into people's homes in our neighborhoods. And so it's sort of hard because we see these two these two trajectories they're going to cross at some point.
Speaker 6: Right. And so how do we how do we speak for future business owners? This is a tough one because we want more daycare centers. We need more daycare centers. I was talking to someone today who mentioned that down here there are only three daycare centers in the downtown area.
Speaker 6: I mean, there just simply are not enough. And so, you know, we need to be able to find a way to to to make both of those things work. And I think that by moving this amendment, Councilman Flynn has come up with a compromise that makes sense on on that perspective and that part of things.
Speaker 6: And then in terms of the the 500 foot between businesses, you know, as long as these businesses are maintaining their their the law. Right. As long as they're selling to people who are over 21, then then they should have the right to do that.
Speaker 6: As long as if they're not selling to kids, then, you know, we are already taxing our businesses at such incredible rate. We are already putting so much pressure on our small businesses. And now they're looking down the pipeline at, you know, having to keep up with minimum wage.
Speaker 6: You know, our our our cost of living has not kept up. And, you know, our our wages have not kept up with our cost of living. It's again, this to me. Councilman Flynn is reaching a compromise here with allowing law abiding businesses to provide, you know, people who are over the age of 21 who are making a
Speaker 6: terrible choice to smoke, do not smoke. People don't smoke. But if you choose to smoke and you're over the age of 21, you know, then then these law abiding businesses are making money at that and they should be allowed to do that no matter how far away they are from another law abiding business.
Speaker 6: So maybe so to me, even though I'm so grateful for this work that you're doing and I'm so happy that we and so proud that I get to be one of the people who votes yes today. On raising the bar and raising the age of smoking to 21.
Speaker 6: I also I'm going to support Councilman Flynn in in his motion because they make sense to me in striking a compromise here on some issues that our city is facing that I think are going to are going to be tough as we move forward.
Speaker 6: And so thank you for all of your hard work. And thank you, Councilman Flynn, for also bringing this to the forefront. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. To our council, McKinney.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. Just a couple of questions before I comment. Mr. Sanders, thanks so much for the maps you provided me. You shared that you had a robust stakeholder process. Did you share those maps in the stakeholder process?
Speaker 10: We did not have these maps developed for the stakeholder process.
Speaker 6: When where they developed.
Speaker 10: They were developed prior to committee and after the stakeholder process. And after we receive that feedback, we've posted revisions on our website.
Speaker 6: When you came to committee A.O., if you recall, I asked you how much the noncompliance was. And do you recall at that time that you said you didn't know it, that you weren't able to provide that information during the committee meeting?
Speaker 10: The rate of noncompliance.
Speaker 6: Right. That how many nonconforming businesses with the rules create that you were unable to answer that at committee. So the other question I wanted to ask you about is you I appreciate you also shared, in addition to the maps, you shared some of the background information.
Speaker 6: I read what you sent me. Change labs, I think, was the source. Did you do a profile of all other cities that had similar restrictions to the ones you proposed in this bill?
Speaker 10: We did research on other cities. That had similar restrictions in the bill.
Speaker 6: Did you find a single city that had restrictions on schools, daycare centers and distance from each other?
Speaker 10: There are many cities in California that have similar proximity restrictions, if not more. And then there are many cities not in California that don't.
Speaker 6: I didn't find any that had daycare centers. Is that something that's not mentioned in any of the research that you sent me? So is that can you can you share if there's a gap between what you sent me and you did some other research that you didn't send me in daycare centers?
Speaker 10: No, there's. So we looked in totality of the three at what was available out there. And like I said, many had additional proximity restrictions. None were exactly the same.
Speaker 6: Yeah. I guess what I would say is, having followed up on what you sent me, I did not find a single city that included daycare centers, pools, recreation centers and all of the locations. I also and this is I'm going to move to comments.
Speaker 6: So thank you for your your time. I think that the appropriate way to proceed with policy is to say to the public, we have a desire to protect you from acts and here's what we're going to do and propose that in this case, I worry that we are creating a false expectation when we're creating an expectation that
Speaker 6: we're going to protect you from something. But then 85% of businesses will continue to exist. So, in fact, if you're a firm believer that people should not, you know, be selling tobacco in these locations, but that truthfully, it's going to be continuing to happen, then I think we're setting a false expectation.
Speaker 6: In my recollection, I do not recall a time when we as a city have in one vote created 85% noncompliance rate in one single vote. So to me, it's about one that the data was not matching up with the recommendations to that.
Speaker 6: I just don't believe it's it's good government to say to folks, hey, I'm going to make this thing illegal, but really it's not going to be illegal because everyone's going to keep doing it. And I think the other points that, you know, Councilwoman Sawyer and Councilman Flynn have made about small businesses and just the idea that we
Speaker 6: really we had we had a committee meeting on this, the council gave very strong feedback about needing licensing. I appreciate how much the department reluctantly agreed to go to that step, but then you skipped us in the process.
Speaker 6: And again, the data just doesn't match. So in my opinion, this is a prudent amendment because it's it's telling the truth that we're not going to create standards, that we're really not going to be in a position to enforce.
Speaker 6: So I'm no fan of smoking. No fan of of of youth tobacco use. I think the licensing is key here and I think the licensing going with the G 21, one of the things I'll just comment on real quick so I don't have to chime in on the bill is that we had a conversation, a committee about
Speaker 6: signage. Even though it's not a requirement in the ordinance. I think there was strong feedback that you need to have a sign that says 21. So I hope you achieve that through rules or regulations or model signage. I think it'd be very confusing to have a sign that says 18 and up when we're passing a law that's
Speaker 6: 21. So I hope you solved that and I'll be excited to support the bill if this amendment passes. If it doesn't, I I'm going to struggle. So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman Torres.
Speaker 9: Thank you so much. I don't have any questions for you trust. And thank you so much for meeting with me in between committee and and today I am incredibly supportive of the age increase the licensing requirement also pleased that additional inspectors are being proposed to be added to the team to make sure that retailers are informed of
Speaker 9: the changes. The compliance is met. I have a couple of vendors in District three that appear to have historic violations. And so I appreciate that you'll be holding them accountable and and the incoming licenses accountable to that in Council District three.
Speaker 9: Just to echo one of the issues that Councilwoman Sawyer brought up, we have a number of childcare providers that operate in-home. And the movement is to actually get them licensed and to get them providing education and training to the children in the families that they serve.
Speaker 9: And and and that's the friend and friend and family and friends and family. Neighbor and neighbor care. Thank you. And it actually is a growing movement throughout the city, but we definitely see it in play in District three.
Speaker 9: And so some of the some of the mapping that was done doesn't reflect those in-home providers. And so our density is greater. The distancing between retailers was one that concerned me, but not quite for the reasons that were mentioned here.
Speaker 9: For me, it just has to do with who is providing other things in District three, like fresh food and groceries. To my neighbors, we can count on one hand grocers in District three to major and a couple smaller.
Speaker 9: And so a lot of my neighbors rely on Mart Corner markets. And other retailers for grocery needs. And so I really do worry as we try to and advocate for a grocer for more grocery options, that this might become a barrier.
Speaker 9: And I don't want that to be a barrier for our conversation for fresh food. And I hate that these kinds of things are pitted against one another. But I am grateful that the changes are being made in support of a higher age limit and better enforcement.
Speaker 9: That piece just makes sense for my district.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. I'm going to go to Councilman Sandoval because should benefit.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to chime in and offer my support. And I have a senior in high school and their ability to get tobacco products is real. I have this conversation on a daily basis. I find Jules and I have this conversation with 17 year old, 16 year olds, 15 year olds.
Speaker 3: And as I was thinking about this amendment, Northwest Denver is a bit different than Council District three in Councilman tours this area. But we share West Colfax and we also shared northwest Denver has more access to grocery stores.
Speaker 3: And so because as you sit up here behind the dais and you vote for all of city council and all of the city and county of Denver, I have to offer my support for this amendment, but I also have to echo councilman clenches sign.
Speaker 3: I think it's it's not okay for people to go into these stores and not see it's illegal to sell to 21. You have to same as a liquor store signage is really important and our teenage kids we're in the area era of instant gratification.
Speaker 3: If they want a song, they buy it. If they want to Google something, they are able to do it. And so with that, we have to keep up with the times. So they have to see that sign because if not, they won't know they're not there's no education going to be done about this amendment or about this
Speaker 3: bill for 21 and older. So thank you, Councilman Flynn, for bringing this forward. Thank you, Councilwoman Kinney, for bringing up the signage issue and thinking councilman. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, councilman. Councilman Flint. Rebecca.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Just a quick question. Interested in the way the bill's worded? I want to make sure I understand how the grandfathering will work. It says that the distancing requirements do not apply to any location that has submitted an application.
Speaker 4: As of July 1st of 2020 and that these rules are effective January 1st, 2021. So I'm curious, how many locations are there? I'm trying to remember from committee there were 500 and some such proximately 586, approximately 586. I like that it varies, give or take.
Speaker 4: So how many of them are aware that they may be within 1000 feet of a daycare or within 500 feet of another seller of tobacco products?
Speaker 10: How many are aware today?
Speaker 4: Yes. I mean, do they know?
Speaker 10: Could not answer that.
Speaker 4: So they don't.
Speaker 10: Know. It was in our presentation and engagement with stakeholders. However, between now and the application period, our team will actually be visiting every single retailer personally and.
Speaker 4: They of those 586, give or take, how many came to your stakeholder meeting?
Speaker 10: So we had somewhere around 17 to 20. However, many of them represented multiple locations.
Speaker 4: Right. Okay. Like this.
Speaker 10: Several like a smoke screen. Like a 7-Eleven.
Speaker 4: That's right. Okay. So what I'm what I'm wondering is if and this gets to what Councilwoman Torres was talking about, if if there's a new retailer who wants to come in and they are after July 1st of next year, say, sometime in 2021, and at a store is going to open up and they want to sell cigarets
Speaker 4: to over 21 and they are not within 1000 feet of a daycare or within 500 feet of another retailer. They would be given a license, correct?
Speaker 10: That's right.
Speaker 4: If a daycare if they met all the other requirements.
Speaker 10: If they met all the proximity restrictions. Yes. And applied after July 1st. Yes, it would be okay.
Speaker 4: So if a daycare center then opened afterward. After that new store sometime in 2021. We're bringing in the lawyers. I'm really in trouble now.
Speaker 10: I'm bored.
Speaker 4: So if a if a daycare center moved in within 1000 feet of this new store in 2022, they're not, according to the bills written, they would not be eligible for grandfathering. Would we deny them their renewal the next year?
Speaker 10: So on sabbatical from the Denver City Attorney's Office, I work in prosecution and code enforcement and I advise the Department of Excise and licenses the way the bill is currently written. The standards of denial, the approximate locations our restrictions are located in.
Speaker 10: The standards of denial. Yes, those standards.
Speaker 11: Of denial apply to applications for new licensing. So in your.
Speaker 10: Scenario, if they applied for new licensing and they complied with proximity restrictions.
Speaker 11: At the time of application for that new licensing, and then they received a license.
Speaker 10: Then they would have the license that would not affect their renewal if a new daycare center opened up so they could keep renewing every year.
Speaker 4: Can I suggest then that this is not worded to actually accomplish that? Paragraph three says this subsection B, which is the the reasons for denial based on proximity, shall not apply to any application for a retail store license submitted on or before July 1st, 2020.
Speaker 4: Are you saying a renewal application doesn't fit under that?
Speaker 10: That's right. So that that the word application in that section is referring to a new license application.
Speaker 4: Okay. It doesn't say that, but it was. So a renewal is not considered a retail tobacco store license.
Speaker 10: A renewal would be considered a retail tobacco store license. But by the standards of renewal have are the standards of denial of renewal have different standards.
Speaker 4: Okay. I hope that you can appreciate that. I think I believe that that's unclear here, that it would not that strictly speaking verbatim it would not apply to. Sure.
Speaker 10: And so the language was copied from other ordinances that we have, for example, for marijuana. It works the same way in in marijuana as it says that any application should not be granted in these particular locations and that the.
Speaker 11: Grandfathering language is different for marijuana. But we've been interpreting it to say that application.
Speaker 10: That sentence refers to an application for a new license.
Speaker 4: And trust. And I think the only other thing I would observe in in reference to Councilwoman Sandoval's district, where you had a high concentration and a high concentration of violations, I think the way I read this, it's not the proximity restrictions that will winnow down the number of retailers.
Speaker 4: It's getting people on violations and then pulling their license, removing their ability to. To sell.
Speaker 10: If you're talking about narrowing the number of retailers overall, it's the compliance program that may do that.
Speaker 4: But this includes a very aggressive compliance program.
Speaker 10: Retailers.
Speaker 4: Right. Right. So the way to reduce the concentration, the proximity restrictions don't reduce the current concentration. Let's say what what does that in the in the instance of northwest Denver is aggressive enforcement and pulling the licenses. Okay. At what?
Speaker 4: How many violations would it take for a retailer to lose their license?
Speaker 10: Completely.
Speaker 4: Yes.
Speaker 10: So in a in a renewal application, that is one of the standards of denial, where if they have any violations, we can consider that. Oh, but also at two violations they would get a 30 day suspension notice at three they would get a 60 day.
Speaker 10: Okay. For and subsequent would be up to a year.
Speaker 4: Do we do that now with 18 and under sales? We do. And how many retailers have lost their license?
Speaker 10: I believe we are at 48 retailers across the city that have been restricted sales for up to 30 days that have been issued. Some of those might be an appeal. Thank you.
Speaker 4: So so I guess, Mr. Perez, what I'm saying is this amendment would not inhibit in any way the enforcement of that. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman Flynn. Councilman Hines, if you don't mind, if you new people have jumped in. I'll get back to you in a second. Councilman Ortega.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not sure if this is for Ansel or for Tristin, but I wanted to ask what restrictions there would be on any of the grandfathered addresses. Is it just on expansion of operations, physical improvements to the building?
Speaker 7: Help me understand what those restrictions would be for someone who is grandfathered in that maybe was thinking about, you know, expanding the business. They've got the physical space to do it. They want to do upgrades to the building.
Speaker 7: What what are those restrictions?
Speaker 10: So entrepreneur from the Denver City Attorney's Office, again, just for the record, the. So currently there's no there would not be any new application required if you wanted to, for example, expand the floor plan of your business. Use that for marijuana, for example, we require a.
Speaker 11: Modification application that's not required for retail tobacco licenses. So the only restriction right now on so there would not be any restriction on grandfathered locations down in the restriction would apply to applications for new licensing.
Speaker 7: Okay. And then on the restricted sales for people who had been, you know, identified for for having multiple violations, is the restriction on the sales just on the tobacco product or is it a restriction on them being able to operate at all if they're selling other food products, etc.?
Speaker 10: No, it's just not tobacco products. They're required to remove all tobacco products from their store and not sell sales of tobacco to anybody is not allowed under that suspension.
Speaker 7: Okay. And then when the public meetings took place. Was the input from them to include daycare centers, or did that come as a recommendation from your department?
Speaker 10: So we came with the recommendations of what we were intending on, including in the bill, and we asked for their feedback and we listed each proximity restriction specifically and asked, I will say the majority of comments that we got were about the distance from other retailers because as Councilman Flynn's noted, there's 84% that currently would not phone
Speaker 10: compliance. Without it, though, they would be grandfathered. We didn't hear much, actually, if anything, about the daycare restriction, though.
Speaker 7: Do you think they understood the implications, especially if you didn't have a map to be able to show, you know, where we have daycare centers across the city.
Speaker 10: So we we displayed the language that we intended on, including we did not have a map at that time. Okay.
Speaker 7: All right. I have no further questions. Thank you so much.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Herndon.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. And I'll comment on now on the bill as a whole. And so I won't have that chime back in when we go go through whether or not the amendment passes or not. It's interesting because as I look at this, are we have a bill before us not counting the amendments.
Speaker 10: It's going to say we're going to stop selling below a particular age and we're going to create distance requirements for future retail tobacco licenses. And so we have a current standard that says only X number of retail tobacco license will be able to move forward based off of our distancing requirements.
Speaker 10: But we have an amendment that essentially wants to lower the distancing requirements. So we're going to say as a city, we're going to allow more. So we're saying we don't believe you should sell to above 21, under 21.
Speaker 10: Excuse me, but we're going to make an amendment that is going to allow us to put more store stores out in the city. And to me, that seems counter to the spirit of what we're actually trying to do.
Speaker 10: When I have spoken with constituents, I've not had one constituent say to me, I need more places to go buy retail tobacco. And so for me, supporting this amendment doesn't seem prudent because I don't believe that the statement that we're trying to make as a city, because you can still open a retail location, you just may not
Speaker 10: be able to sell tobacco. And I'm actually okay with that because there are certain parts of my city maybe you should sell fruit instead of tobacco. And my colleague, Councilman Hines, was asking about the notification process. I can assure you no one is going to let the tobacco license lapse.
Speaker 10: Why? Because they make a ton of money off of that product. They're not going to forget that. So I can't support the amendment moving forward. Councilman Flynn, I would hope my colleagues would not. I think it does send a mixed message.
Speaker 10: But I appreciate the colleagues. I appreciate the conversations and hear from one of my colleagues. Do thank, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman. Nine tobacco.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, Mr. Hernan or excuse me, Councilman Hernan. There was no map. Retailers. I maybe this is for you. I would imagine that the retailers are aware of where the other retailers are. Would you say that to be the case?
Speaker 5: I mean, it's not me speaking. I mean, so they they know they know that they're in a location where they'll sell cigarets. Otherwise, if they were in a location where they wouldn't sell cigarets, they wouldn't be there for very long.
Speaker 5: I would imagine. Then I guess I'm hesitating because the nature of my question. I realize this call is calling for speculation that probably the department is not in the business of making. So is there a retailer here that that was in the stakeholder process that might be willing to speak tonight?
Speaker 5: Figured I'd ask. Thank you. Okay. So I guess the comment that I would make is. It doesn't take an MBA to know that you should know where you are in relation to your customers and where you are in relation to your competition.
Speaker 5: And while I respect that a map kind of drives that home, I'm not sure that a map makes the difference between. Whether, you know, whether a retailer does. I mean, I think at some point, if you if you aren't aware of where your customers and where your competition are, then natural selection will weed you out soon enough
Speaker 5: anyway. So I respect my colleagues in their reasoned decision. And I, I also I want to be very I want to be very clear that I want to make sure that we have transparency in government. And if there was no in fact, the reason why I was going to oppose the amendment is because there was this stakeholder
Speaker 5: process. And the stakeholder process had these you know, the language there from the beginning is that we didn't change the language at all in the stakeholder process.
Speaker 10: I mean, it was it was draft language that was taken to a PowerPoint. So yeah. Okay. So the revised to be 500 feet, that was the only change on that.
Speaker 5: Right. So stakeholder process was there. We had the information from the very beginning, the language. So I think what's what's giving some of my colleagues pause is the transparency around that stakeholder process. And. And yeah, there was the language.
Speaker 5: But maybe they could be posited or theorize that some of the people didn't really fully understand what the language was. And I guess my point is, I think that even without a map, I think that cigaret retailers would likely know where their, their customers are and where their competition are even without a visual display.
Speaker 5: So I'm sorry, I'm kind of working through this real time, but we're also getting information real time. So. So thank you. And thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Sometimes I don't see anybody else in the queue. I do have a few questions. This one, I think is for you or no trust. And if you could tell me on this task force, could you remind me, were there any seats set aside for council members to participate in their task force?
Speaker 10: No. This was city staff that worked on them. The bill we took the feedback from the first time we went to committee back in March or April, and we worked on the licensing component between then and when it went to committee most recently.
Speaker 0: Just a, you know, for future reference, appreciate if you give us a couple of seats on there. I do think that it helps if you look at things like green roofs that have task force and council members can speak to what happened to those those stakeholder meetings and some of the agreements that were reached and how they
Speaker 0: got there. Sometimes we speak our own weird language. Better to communicate that back. So just a recommendation for anyone considering task forces, I think I always think you get a better result when you include council member spots on there.
Speaker 0: Councilman Flynn, one of the things that you had mentioned was, hey, this wasn't really the intent. The intent is don't sell to anyone under 21. Setbacks weren't really robustly discussed. We didn't have all the chance in the data.
Speaker 0: But you're not proposing that we remove all of the setbacks? Only some of them. Can you walk me through some of your thinking on why? Why some of them? And why not just say no setbacks? Let's reset that and have that conversation and come back with that.
Speaker 0: Why keep some and get rid of others?
Speaker 4: Sure. Mr. President, I. I accept and agree with the observation that it is a good thing to keep new retail locations away from places where youth are known to congregate. And that is schools, rec centers and pools. I don't put daycare centers and the entire spatial relationship between the retailers themselves among among that category.
Speaker 4: Again, in that in that realm, the stricter enforcement and pulling of the license itself is what will reduce the concentration of retailers who are violating and are selling currently now to under 18 and after this passes to under 21.
Speaker 4: So I think it does make sense and it was persuasive in committee to have the thousand foot distance from schools, pools, rec rec centers, but daycare just didn't ring. Again, I mean, you don't have 18 year olds going to daycare these days.
Speaker 4: It's kids don't congregate. Kids who want to purchase cigarets don't congregate in the daycare. And plus, you have the problems with with the daycares being in-home and being having new daycares causing distancing problems with currently existing retailers. So it makes sense to me to keep the thousand foot restriction from schools, rec centers and pools, but not so
Speaker 4: . I don't see that reasoning applying to daycare or to or to. Among the retailers themselves. I am looking at when if I can expand on that.
Speaker 0: Mr. President, please.
Speaker 4: I'm looking at the presentation interest and made in March at committee and I don't see any mention of proposing distancing requirement in it.
Speaker 10: In March, we were only talking about raising legal fees to correct.
Speaker 4: And I think that's the intent and that's the purpose that everybody that I believe that'll pass 13 to nothing. Well, 12 to nothing tonight with one missing. I don't see anyone up here. I haven't heard of anyone opposing that and that that will be accomplished with or without this amendment.
Speaker 4: But because it wasn't brought to us in March, it wasn't even a topic of discussion. I first learned of it in the Safe House Committee when when Kristen brought it. I think that's a broader policy discussion that needs to be had separately and not muddle up the issue of selling to under 21 with these extra distancing requirements
Speaker 0: . Thank you, Councilman. And then, you know, I had this in my questions before. Councilman Herndon made a statement that I generally tend to agree with. I don't know if somebody from excise could maybe answer how many establishments with a marijuana license because we have a lot of grandfathered in there based on setbacks, have lost their license from
Speaker 0: forgetting to apply their rent a few people. You know the burden to remember. What if I forget? What if I haven't gotten them enough notifications? Councilman Herndon made the point that, hey, this is a big part of how I make money, so I know that's probably not likely.
Speaker 0: You know, I know in my district where we have a huge number of grandfathered marijuana businesses, I don't know of any who have forgotten to apply and lost their grandfathered status.
Speaker 10: So anti-tobacco from the Denver city attorney's office. I'm not aware of that happening. Marijuana licenses can be very expensive. And so they do keep track of those renewal dates. So I'm not aware of anyone who has inadvertently let the license lapse and then lost grandfathered in based on that.
Speaker 0: Okay. Thank you. And then I'll just as in the question, just another thing that, again, I do think I wish we would have really dove into this part of this, and I wish that we would have this as a broader conversation across marijuana, alcohol and tobacco, because I feel like sometimes we are talking about what seems like
Speaker 0: the same thing, but they are all stigmatized, are not stigmatized, looked at in different ways. And we're making different decisions not based on facts. I agree with, you know, Councilman Flynn's statement that there aren't a lot of toddlers coming in from daycares to purchase.
Speaker 0: I also don't think that and I could be wrong, we haven't had this data. There are a lot of kids at elementary schools who are trying to purchase and elementary schools. There are way more of them than middle and high schools and there are way more charter schools that can also move in and change how things are
Speaker 0: . Should we be talking about that? Should we be talking about all of these things and how they interact? And I worry a little bit of something similar happening to what happened with marijuana in my district along Broadway in particular, whereby grandfathering everyone and making new rules for everybody else.
Speaker 0: You now have an area that has a higher concentration of dispensaries than anywhere else in the city ever will. And if we're already are looking at a map that says these establishments are already added density, that research is showing is causing problems.
Speaker 0: Right. And not where we want them to be and where youth are. And now we're adding this in. It's it's it's protecting areas from ever becoming like that. But those aren't the areas. It's the same disproportionate effect. And I think what we haven't talked a lot about, I think looking at that mapping, it would be similar to
Speaker 0: marijuana mapping where we're going to see now we've institutionalized and added value to a license that's grandfathered has a higher value. If I can't get a new one anywhere in there, then where I can, that will continue to now institutionalized forever a higher density of these establishments in lower income communities, in communities of color than in other
Speaker 0: parts of town that will never now are protected from ever getting to that level of density. So I wish we were having a broader conversation about all of that. And what are the effects of a of these things and why are we treating setbacks for these things differently?
Speaker 0: And so I do think regardless of what happens today, the good news is we can change a lot of that across all of these things. And I do think that we should dove deeper into that and really have conversations that are data driven about who are we trying to protect, what are we trying to protect, and is
Speaker 0: this an effective way of doing that and what are the unintended consequences? So I just want to make one last observation and then we will vote on the amendment. I think it's very interesting that there's not a single retailer in here today.
Speaker 0: So as we're debating all this things and how it will impact retailers and losing their license and all this or not one of them here to speak up, which is unusual, I would say, when we talk about these things elsewhere, is when it's somebody who does feel like this is a real threat to their business.
Speaker 0: So just an observation. All right. With that, Madam Secretary, roll call, we're going to vote on the amendment first. So this is on the amendment that Councilman Flynn has put forward. My secretary, Scott Flynn.
Speaker 2: I see tobacco. I. Gillmor, I. Herndon No.
Speaker 5: Hines No.
Speaker 3: Cashman.
Speaker 2: Kimmage Right. Ortega.
Speaker 7: No.
Speaker 2: Sandoval. I. Sawyer.
Speaker 6: I.
Speaker 2: Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: I know. Secretary, please cause voting in the results.
Speaker 2: Nine eyes, three knees.
Speaker 0: Minus three nays. Counsel Bill 921 has been amended. And now, Madam Secretary, unless there's somebody I know, a lot of people said they were going to make their comments on the bill as a whole when they made their comments on the amendment.
Speaker 0: But if there's anybody who was waiting to just make their comments on the bill speak now or we're going to do a roll call on the bill as amended. I don't see anybody. So, Madam Secretary, roll call on 921 as amended.
Speaker 2: CdeBaca, I. Flynn. Hi Gilmore I Herndon.
Speaker 10: High.
Speaker 2: Tide.
Speaker 5: I.
Speaker 2: Cashman Kenny Ortega I.
Speaker 3: Sandoval, i.
Speaker 2: Sawyer I Torres, i. Mr. President, all right.
Speaker 0: I'm secretary. Please. Because voting in those results.
Speaker 2: 1212.
Speaker 0: Hours counts will 921 has passed. Next up, it. Could you please put. Well, did I miss something?
Speaker 3: No, no. Just don't forget to go back.
Speaker 0: Yeah. So, Madam Secretary, if you could please put the item on our screens. That comes from Norman Sawyer. Called out, which was 965. Four questions. And, Councilwoman, go ahead with your questions.

Speaker 0: Yeah. So, Madam Secretary, if you could please put the item on our screens. That comes from Norman Sawyer. Called out, which was 965. Four questions. And, Councilwoman, go ahead with your questions.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for going back. Sorry I was out of the room. I just had a couple of quick questions on 965, which is the contracts with the city and county of Denver and meet and hunt for environmental planning services in Denver.
Speaker 6: And then. Is there anyone?
Speaker 9: Talk to me about.
Speaker 11: North from Denver, but I can certainly try to answer questions.
Speaker 6: Okay. Perfect. Thank you. So, what are environmental planning services?
Speaker 11: So my understanding of this, did you.
Speaker 0: Grow and exercise yourself.
Speaker 11: First? Yeah, certainly. Thanks. Councilwoman Kevin Morgan, Mayor's Office. My undertaking this contract is to help for upcoming projects to make sure that the airport is in compliance with the FAA when there are NEPA requirements for construction projects. So making sure that if there are NEPA requirements involved, that they are being followed.
Speaker 9: Okay. Great. Um.
Speaker 6: So I was just looking through exhibit A, the scope of work of the contract and under Section two G, preparing affected environment and environmental consequences of analysis for two compatible land use and 16 energy supply and natural resources.
Speaker 6: I'm just wondering what those are. Can you just tell me what that means? And. People speak.
Speaker 11: I can't speak specifically to that scope. I could certainly see if Denver can get you some specific answers or Dan can get you some specific answers on that.
Speaker 6: That would be great if you could. I guess I'm just sort of. And then my other question was in Section two, under air quality, when air conformity evaluations and determinations be estimate, calculate emissions from stationary mobile sources using appropriate emissions vectors, emissions models, etc..
Speaker 6: I'm I'm just wondering what that is yet again.
Speaker 11: I can see if I can get you more specific answers to your questions.
Speaker 6: That would be great. Certainly trying to figure out. A little bit more information and clarity around exactly what sorts of compatible land use and energy supply and natural resource information this contract is providing. Done. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Anything else?
Speaker 6: That's it.
Speaker 0: Think, Councilor said.
Speaker 3: I'm. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm also curious about this. Is is it possible for us to postpone?
Speaker 0: I believe this one is. Is this one a contract? So I think, Madam Secretary, stop me or legal stop me. But I believe any member invoking a rule number that I cannot remember off the top of my head may hold this over for a week.
Speaker 0: Is that correct? Or if we have sometimes we have a potential issue with contracts that they may hit the shot clock. So I don't know if we could get a determination from our secretary or legal on the process for a holding this over.
Speaker 0: Are you talking about just holding it over or to a date? Certain.
Speaker 6: Yeah. Okay. Yes. So Kirsten Crawford, Legislative Council and one member could delay it. This is just to remind you all, if we have advance notice, we can get the proper staff here so that my apologies on that. Today was just a crazy day with budget and and the Lowry and everything and I got this request in Super
Speaker 6: Lakes. I didn't get it in time. This is all on me again. My apologies. And and so if we cannot.
Speaker 0: Can we do a quick check on the shot clock that this would just be approved if we don't take time, do we have time for a one week delay that wouldn't invoke that?
Speaker 7: Yes, we do.
Speaker 6: Yes.
Speaker 1: Yes.
Speaker 0: Okay. So we have time to take a one week delay that wouldn't automatically approve this. If a member would like to ask that.
Speaker 6: I would. Thank you. All right. I move to.
Speaker 0: Take a one. What official language do we need the councilwoman to ask for here, Madam Secretary.
Speaker 2: Just the request to delay. The delay for one week is sufficient.
Speaker 6: I request a one week delay for 19 0965, please. With apologies for my super late requests for information on this.
Speaker 0: All right. And that is not something that we vote on. That is just granted to a member who asks for it. So it is been asked and is given. All right. Anything else we need on that, Madam Secretary?
Speaker 0: We are good.
Speaker 2: We're good.
Speaker 0: All right. Thank you, sir. That does conclude all of the items that were called out this evening. All bills for introduction are ordered, published, and we are now ready for the black vote on resolutions and bills on final consideration.
Speaker 0: Council members remember that this is a consent or block vote and you will need to vote I. Otherwise, this is your last chance to call it an item for a separate vote. Cattleman's Advocate, will you please put the resolutions for adoption and the bills on final consideration for final passage on the floor?
Speaker 3: I move that resolution. Resolutions be adopted and bills on final consideration be placed upon final consideration and do pass in a block for the following items. 9539668 11 812 873951955911956961962 917 952963 1020 8835 900 and 902.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Has been moved and seconded, Madam Secretary. Roll call.
Speaker 2: CdeBaca I Flynt.
Speaker 0: Hi.
Speaker 2: Gilmore. Hi.
Speaker 10: Herndon I.
Speaker 2: Heights.
Speaker 5: Hi.
Speaker 2: Cashman Hi, Carnage. Ortega Hi Sandoval. I swear, I. Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Hi. I'm secretary. Please cast voting, announce the results. 1212 ays the resolutions have been adopted and the bills have been placed upon final consideration and do pass. Tonight there will be a courtesy public hearing on Council Bill 914 amending Chapter 30 Landmark Preservation of the Revised Municipal Code and a courtesy public hearing on Council Bill 776 vacating

Speaker 0: Council is now reconvened. We have two public hearings this evening. Speakers should begin their remarks by telling the council their names and cities of residents and if they feel comfortable doing so, their home addresses. If you are here to answer questions only when your name is called, please come to the podium, state your name and note that
Speaker 0: you are available for questions of council. Speakers will have 3 minutes. There is no yielding of time and on the presentation monitor on the wall you will see your time coming down. Speakers must stay on the topic of the hearing and must direct their comments to the council members.
Speaker 0: Please refrain from profane or obscene speech. Direct your comments to council as a whole and please refrain from individual or personal attacks. Councilman said Abarca, will you please put Council Bill 914 on the floor?
Speaker 3: I move that council bill 914 be placed upon final consideration and do pass.
Speaker 0: Thank you. It has been moved and seconded. The courtesy hearing for Council Will 914 is open. May we have the staff report?
Speaker 12: Good evening. My name is Karen. I'm with Landmark Preservation in Community Planning and Development and we are here to talk about the proposed updates to the Landmark Ordinance or chapter 30 of the Denver Revised Municipal Code. Landmark Preservation was established in 1967 by Denver City Council with the purpose of designating, preserving and protecting historic resources.
Speaker 12: I Council noted at the time that it was the sense of the Council that the economic, cultural and esthetic standing of the city cannot be maintained or enhanced by disregarding the historic architectural and geographical history of the city.
Speaker 12: The Denver landmarks vary from what you see in the upper left hand corner, which is a staged stop at Four Mile Park to something as modern as a hangar in Stapleton. They vary over what is significant for in the types of buildings that that we have.
Speaker 12: There are currently 344 individual landmarks and 55 historic districts, which equals about 6800 primary buildings in the city in county of Denver, or approximately out of the approximately 160,000 buildings. 55 historic districts make it seem like a lot, but it's really about 4% of the city.
Speaker 12: And through this process, as we were looking at other peer cities, we found that that's an approximate number of percentage of buildings that are designated for cities of our size. So for the proposed landmark ordinance, we convened a task force of 16 members.
Speaker 12: It was intentionally put together to include those who were supportive of preservation, those who are not supportive of preservation, and those who were neutral. It included residents from a variety of different neighborhoods around the city and professions that intersected with landmark preservation, including to members of council developers, architects, realtors and contractors.
Speaker 12: We also looked at putting, when we convene the task force to have people who are newer residents to Denver, as well as people who had lived here for a long time and those who are multi-generation families from Denver.
Speaker 12: So we got to do a diverse group of people who had lived in the city and county of Denver. They they met for a yearlong process and convened 11 different facilitated stakeholder meetings. During their initial two meetings, the task force did a problem identification and they looked at what were the area, what were the areas that they
Speaker 12: wanted to focus on. They talked about a lack of diversity in the designated prop properties. The complexity of the ordinance requirements. Conflict associated with designations submitted as part of the demolition process. And the lack of incentives for designation.
Speaker 12: So the goals and the recommendations that are being put forth addressed is each of these items that were identified in the task force. The task force looked at those problem statements as well as criteria that they established sorry, as well as criteria that they established to determine if they were successful, that the processes that were being updated
Speaker 12: were clear and predictable, that they were consistent with long held citywide practices and that they were based on best preservation practices. We as staff conducted a nationwide comparative analysis of 12 peer cities, and when we talked to them, we looked at standard preservation practices, best practices, innovative programs, and then we called and talked to them to find
Speaker 12: out what were things that didn't work. We didn't want to put forward ideas that they found didn't work. And after the 11 meetings and the other 12 month process, the task force reached a consensus on all of the recommendations that are put forward.
Speaker 12: And so one of our one of our last meetings, one of our task force members said that he was a little bit uncomfortable with this. And then he looked and said, but he thinks any Levinsky, who is the director of historic Denver, was also a little bit uncomfortable, which probably meant that we hit the right balance between
Speaker 12: making things. That was a good compromise. So the recommendations are to add a culture criteria to our designation criteria. So the task force is recommending to add three criteria to our culture, one on how the site was used by past generations.
Speaker 12: Could a site or property be a source of pride or cultural understanding to a community? And three, is it associated with social movements, institutions, or patterns of growth or change in the community? We looked at what would be the right number of criteria, and we expanded our 12 peer cities to 32 cities.
Speaker 12: We looked at other Colorado cities. We especially looked at two cities in Colorado that had paid professional staff of at least two members. There aren't any other comparable cities in Colorado to Denver, but we wanted to choose cities that were actually putting some resources towards preservation.
Speaker 12: As an understanding that that's an ethos of that city. So we looked at Boulder and Fort Collins. Then we also looked at other peer cities like Austin, Portland and Seattle. And we found a variety of ways of how people were how many criteria were needed in order to be a landmark in those cities.
Speaker 12: And we looked at it, and most of those cities had a list of criteria rather than the categories that we currently have. Only ourselves, Boise, Boise and Greeley, out of the 32 cities, had categories. So the task force is recommending to remove the categories and have criteria.
Speaker 12: So here are existing designation criteria of history, architecture and geography. And so the task force is recommending to remove the categories and then create a list of criteria that include culture. And as you can see here, there's a list of ten criteria.
Speaker 12: They are still associated with the categories, with the addition of culture, and that it would meet a designation would meet three out of the ten in order to be designated. That is still one of the highest thresholds in the nation.
Speaker 12: As we looked at some of those same 32 cities, 24 of them, or 75% require fewer than 30% criteria met to be a landmark or a designation in their city. So we're still maintaining a high requirement for designation, which was an important part of what the task force talked about.
Speaker 12: We also went and looked and tried different properties against the proposed criteria. This is the Macedonia Baptist Church. It's listed on the National Register of Historic Places, but it is not a Denver landmark. So there was research that was already associated with this property.
Speaker 12: And when we looked at it, we found that it would have been significant under the proposed criteria under architecture, as well as under two, under culture as a source of pride, as well as associated with social movements or institutions of pattern and growth.
Speaker 12: And so we found that this criteria worked for the culture criteria to allow for designated properties that represent the African-American community. We also looked at iconic buildings, things that are already designated and whether they still be designated today.
Speaker 12: So we took one of the most iconic buildings in Denver, which is Union Station, and found that it would meet six out of the ten criteria and would still be eligible under the proposed criteria. We also wanted to look at residential in addition to in addition to commercial properties.
Speaker 12: And so we looked at the Molly Brown house, which is one of the more iconic residential buildings in Denver, and found that it still met the criteria three out of ten and felt like that would be a good threshold number.
Speaker 12: And then we also looked at a property that we had reviewed for a demolition permit a couple of years ago. And at that time, we found that it didn't meet the existing criteria and categories that we have. And we found under the proposed new criteria, it would still would not meet the it would still not meet the
Speaker 12: criteria to would only be significant under architecture. And so we wanted to try out the proposed criteria under different for different properties and under different methods to ensure that we were reaching the right balance in the task force found that the three out of ten would be the appropriate criteria for designation.
Speaker 12: The other reason that the task force was primarily convened was to look at the conflicts that comes from properties that are come under demolition review and then a designation process is started through that. And so we talked extensively about ways to reduce the conflict in that we wanted to provide some numbers of the of what we have
Speaker 12: reviewed citywide. So if you can see the blue graph bar on the the largest numbers are the properties that landmark staff reviewed and approved for demolition. Then the much smaller purple shows the number of properties that we found had the potential to be a Denver landmark, and those were posted.
Speaker 12: And then the very small that you almost can't see the line, but you can see the number are the number of designations that were received from 2014 through midyear of 2019. And so we're talking about a really small percentage of properties that come forward, but understanding that when they do come forward, there is a lot of conflict
Speaker 12: that is associated with that. So of those designations that came forward, only one has been designated as a landmark. It's the Beth Eden Baptist Church, which was designated in 2014 or 2015. We have had three that were withdrawn by the applicant, three that were denied by city council.
Speaker 12: And then we have two that were denied by the Landmark Preservation Commission because they found that the applications were not sufficient to come forward. These owner opposed designations are very rare. And one of the things that we found in Denver and in our research with our peer cities is that we sometimes find a really good way of
Speaker 12: saving buildings that aren't necessarily through designation. And so while only one property has been designated through this process, we've also we've saved a variety of buildings through a compromise that didn't come through designation. And the task force talked about wanting to take this process out of the binary demo or designation process and turn it into some sort
Speaker 12: of collaboration between the community and the property owner. And so the task force is proposing to add a pause in the process. So the top line shows the current process that that a designation would go forward and a demolition review.
Speaker 12: And on the top one in green, it shows that there's a short seven day pause. What the task force is talking about doing is extending that pause from seven days to 39 days, which adds up to a grand total of a 60 day pause.
Speaker 12: Within that pause, there would be a required third party facilitated meeting, and it would be facilitated by a city paid facilitator. Landmark staff would who would attend these meetings to help provide information that would be needed. But the intent is to bring the property owner or any of the property owners, representatives together with community members, with members
Speaker 12: of the R.A., and bring in any outside expertize that could be needed on the cases that have come forward to city council. We have. On that. Sometimes you have asked questions about the stability of the property or was there a compromise that could be reached in this process?
Speaker 12: It would allow for bringing in outside experts who are structural engineers, who are used to working on historic properties, and that they could also provide input in this process if needed. One of the questions that we got in our public comment period is what happens if someone decides to skip the third party facilitated meeting?
Speaker 12: And so we address this by if the person who asked for the pause or submitted the notice of intent. If they don't attend the facilitated meeting, that demolition would automatically be approved the next business day. If the property owner or the property owners representatives do not attend the meeting, then the demolition is automatically denied.
Speaker 12: The next day the property owner would have the ability to start the process over again, but they would have to restart from the beginning. And so there's a reaction on either side if they don't attend the facilitated meeting.
Speaker 12: So those are the two major changes that are proposed in the landmark ordinance. There are a variety of smaller updates. The landmark ordinance has been updated about 20 some times in the last 52 years, and no one has gone through and looked for consistency within the ordinance.
Speaker 12: So we are clarifying, removing and streamlining some processes. The Internet was not in existence at the time we wrote this in 1967. So we've updated the email on the Internet existing. There are other ways to communicate versus just mail.
Speaker 12: We clarified how a few things were done. We have added or amended definitions, including temporary structures for which landmark preservation would not review temporary signage or structures. We have also added something to help provide consistency with other CPD boards and to to manage the agendas of boards.
Speaker 12: If someone submits a does or submits a design review application, they are taken in a first come, first serve basis. Based on if your application is complete, there are also recommendations to update the Lower Downtown Design Review Board.
Speaker 12: Changing the name from a board to a commission and adding two At-Large members. One of the other things we did for consistency is that both the Landmark Preservation Commission and the Lower Downtown Design Review Board perform design review in a very similar manner.
Speaker 12: But the ordinance does not talk about it in the same way. So we're just clarifying and making sure that the ordinance discusses their review process in the same manner. We are also proposing a few items that are not in the ordinance but were things that the Land Preservation Office is working on.
Speaker 12: The first is to provide clarity for proposed historic districts. So we're formalizing a process for city led community meetings on proposed historic districts. We have staff attend the community meetings that are put forward by the applicants at this time.
Speaker 12: We attend multiple meetings frequently, but there was a talk, especially from some of the neighborhood residents on the task force, about wanting additional time for communities that are going through a proposed designation. And so we would, once they complete application, would be submitted into landmark staff, we would send a letter along with an FAA cue to everyone
Speaker 12: who lives within the historic district or owns property in the district, and tell them that there is going to be a meeting in 30 days to allow the community time to talk about the process. Landmark staff would provide information, and then it's mainly intended to be a Q&A for members of the community to ask Landmarks staff what
Speaker 12: meet what it means to be a historic district. Once that meeting has taken place, we would start an online system to help map and track comments. We currently have a system of dueling petitions where people who are supportive sign a petition and people who are not as supportive or opposed sign a petition.
Speaker 12: And at the last large historic district that came forward, there were people who signed both petitions which made it difficult for us to provide information to you guys as to what was the community support for this. So this would be an online mapping system.
Speaker 12: It's the same system that we used to get comments for Blueprint. Denver So it would move away from neighbors going binary yes or no for neighbors, but that they could come and provide their comments online, that they would drop a pen as to where they are, that they would provide their contact information and address so that we
Speaker 12: could verify that they are actually the people who are filling out the survey and that they would have an area for free comment for anything that they wanted to provide written comment to us. This can also have the advantage of being able to be put in multiple languages to provide better access to it.
Speaker 12: We also wanted to continue to take comment from people who don't own computers or don't have access to the Internet. They can still call us. They can come in person, they can write a letter, they can email us.
Speaker 12: So we aren't precluding any other form of comment. But we wanted to make sure that we had an opportunity to help streamline the process a little bit. One of the things the task force also talked about is to explore ways to incentivize designation.
Speaker 12: We did not find a silver bullet or a magic pot of money somewhere, but we did find through our research that other cities have additional zoning incentives that we don't have or that we aren't using to the best that could be enhanced.
Speaker 12: And so we're looking to do zoning tools to encourage designation things like administrative adjustments or variances for recommendations. If the property and the changes that they're meeting making would be compatible with the character so as to reduce the barriers for people who are designated.
Speaker 12: And this is just a summary of some of the proposed updates that are outside of the ordinance, but that are things that we at Landmark Preservation are working on after the discussion with the task force. We had an extensive community outreach.
Speaker 12: We had a variety of meetings before the Landmark Preservation Commission, the Lower Downtown Design Review Board, Planning Board. We went and met with ANC a couple of times. We had community meetings that were out in the community as well as office hours, and then we had meetings that were one on one meetings with people, as well as
Speaker 12: meetings with organizations for the Denver Metro Association of Realtors Air. We met with Arnaud's when they requested it. We had a public comment period on the draft that was about a two month period, and we incorporated those comments into the final version.
Speaker 12: Into the final version before you. Oh, sorry. Public comments. We received 11 public comments from people during the draft period. And then on the final red line, we received comments, we received 16 emails. That was a form email that was in support of the proposed amendment that was not brought forward.
Speaker 12: And then we received two letters from one from History, Colorado and one from the Colorado preservation ink in support of this, as well as 13 letters submitted by individuals who were in support of this. And so the recommendations are to add culture and simplify the criteria that remove the categories and add three criteria for the demolition review
Speaker 12: process to extend the demolition review process and to add a required third party facilitation meeting to encourage collaboration and then a variety of changes for clarity and consistency. If this is approved, it would have an effective date of November 1st.
Speaker 12: However, any designation applications that are submitted by October 31st would be processed under the existing criteria. So there are a few designations that are in process right now that you guys would see under the old criteria. And anything that's submitted up through October 31st would be under the old criteria.
Speaker 12: And I'm happy to answer any questions you may have.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. We have nine, I think.
Speaker 0: That's nine people and everybody, if I'm reading this right, I think all nine in support tonight who are speaking, signed up to speak tonight. So I'm going to call the first five up. If you can come up to this first bench and then just step up.
Speaker 0: When I call your name, you'll have your 3 minutes start on the clock. Sheron not only Carla McConnell, Annie Levinsky, Rosemary Stoffel and Barbara Paul if you could come up and Sharon Nunnally, you are up first.
Speaker 13: Good evening, council members. My name is Sharon Nunnally. I live in Denver, Colorado, in the Humboldt Park Historic District. I am a past chair of the Denver Landmark Preservation Commission. When we had no design guidelines and our process pretty much was we would try to meet people as much as possible halfway.
Speaker 13: I am also the author of the Five Points Historic District, Cultural, Historic District. And that particular district speaks to what did not exist at the time that I wrote that application. It was written in 2000, 2001, and final designation was in 2002.
Speaker 13: And at that time, Jennifer Moulton was the director of planning and Wellington Webb was the mayor. And I think the only person on council at that time was Debbie Ortega, and that is still, still with us. So at the time that we proposed that application, the ordinance is was in its current state.
Speaker 13: There was no such thing quite as cultural. The word was used, but there had never, ever been an application brought forth on the basis of culture or quite frankly, on the basis of history of a people and a geographic location.
Speaker 13: So it took a lot of rereading on my part. Even though I had read that ordinance 100 times, I read it another 50 just to see how I could cause this application to take form in the current ordinance language.
Speaker 13: And it was very tricky, but we managed to get it done. After much explaining and many community meetings and people, everybody on both sides of the discussion were very confused. What do you mean? And why is it this place?
Speaker 13: And what about these buildings? There are only seven contributing buildings in that district, and so that was intentional and it was a way to recognize the most important buildings, because we also had a landscape that had a lot of add ons.
Speaker 13: However, the main piece of the application was about the district itself, the people, the business corridor at a time that we don't hope to ever repeat in history. And it was during the period of segregation total in this country from the twenties to the fifties.
Speaker 13: And we worked on helping people understand the process from beginning to the time of them.
Speaker 0: I'm sorry, but your 3 minutes are up.
Speaker 13: Oh, I'm sorry. Well, thank you very much. Anyway, that's where we started.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Carla McConnell.
Speaker 9: Good evening. My name is Carla McConnell. I live at 662 Ulster Way, which is in Lowry. I've been involved in historic preservation, both as a volunteer serving on the Denver Landmarks Commission, as a trustee for historic Denver and on the Colorado Preservation Board and professionally as an architect with the National Park Service.
Speaker 9: Tonight, I ask that you adopt the proposed revisions to our landmark ordinance. Denver's ordinance has resulted in the preservation of over 300 individual landmarks and predictable changes in our 55 historic districts. Our community has benefited from creative developers who have adaptively reused non-designated properties.
Speaker 9: But the strength of our landmark ordinance is in saving many qualifying properties, which may have been viewed as disposable. Earlier this evening, Lowry's 25th anniversary was celebrated. Thank you. Lowry is a great reminder of the value of proactive preservation planning at Lowry.
Speaker 9: Buildings that were first seen as white elephants, such as hangars one and two were protected before development began in a landmark district and are now centerpieces of the community. Affordable housing went into the Grand Lowry Lofts and many other examples of adaptive reuse on the one time base gives our neighborhood its unique character.
Speaker 9: LOWRY Success required collaboration between the city, the master developer and neighboring residents. In the 1990s, the certainty that grounded these decisions could not have been achieved without the tools provided by the landmark ordinance. These proposed updates ensure that we can continue to preserve places that tell Denver's story while attracting investment and meeting community needs.
Speaker 9: I thank Councilmembers Flynn and Ken each for their active involvement in the updating process for the time commitment of committee volunteers and especially wish to acknowledge the leadership of Denver's landmark staff. The staff both assembled a committee reflecting various points of view, extensively researched best practices from cities with equivalent preservation programs, and managed to end the process
Speaker 9: with a consensus vote of approval from the committee. No small achievement. Again, the proposed revisions to the landmark ordinance are worthy of your adoption this evening. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next up, any levinsky.
Speaker 9: Thank you. I'm Annie Levinsky, executive director of Historic Denver, Inc, a local nonprofit membership supported organization. I served as a member of the task force over the past 18 months, and we, as historic Denver, came to the table because we agreed that there was room to improve some of the landmark processes and specifically those processes related to
Speaker 9: how new historic designations come forward. I'll admit we were also a little trepidatious about what this might look like and what the outcomes would be. That said, everyone on the task force approached the issues thoughtfully and openly, and the city staff provided helpful research on how other cities were either successfully or not successfully handling similar challenges.
Speaker 9: In the end, the task force everyone on the task force did make compromises. I don't think everyone left the room getting everything they wanted, but we did leave the room in agreement that we had come to a place where the recommendations were solid, where they would serve our community well, and where they would resolve the core issues
Speaker 9: that we were commissioned to address. So I want to thank the other task force members, a number of whom are here tonight, because it was a really major time commitment. The two major recommendations of the task force relate to the designation criteria, which you've heard and the designations that result from the demolition review process, which are very
Speaker 9: rare when the property owners do not support them. We're very excited about the inclusion of the cultural criteria in the designation. We think they can help reduce bias inherent in the system and help invite recognition of resources that reflect the full range of Denver's history.
Speaker 9: And we look forward to building relationships in the communities all across the city to understand what places are meaningful to them as we get used to these new criteria. Often there have been a number of sites that have been underrepresented in formal preservation programs, and Sharon highlighted one of the challenges she faced 20 years ago trying to
Speaker 9: protect the Five Points District. But we also know that we needed to maintain a high bar for designation. And so I'll move to the three criteria on the designations that are more contentious, that do not have the support of property owners, which I think Carol highlighted.
Speaker 9: But it's less than 0.01% of all of the demolitions that come through. But still, we know that they raise contention. And we also know from our own experience that taking a little time to explore alternatives when those issues arrive can often lead to the win win outcome.
Speaker 9: And really, the value is not so much in the designation itself, but in the dialog that is generated by having the opportunity to engage. So we believe that the new structure for demolition postings, which really refocuses the time on dialog and mediation, will provide a better path toward resolution with either even fewer of those coming forward to
Speaker 9: this body. We do look forward to working on some of the incentives that the task force was not able to address because they're not in the ordinance and upholding the preservation legacy in Denver, which has saved places from the mine to LoDo, the Paramount to First Unitarian Church.
Speaker 9: Thank you for your consideration.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next up, Rosemary Stoffel.
Speaker 6: My name is Rosemary Stoffel and I live at 2275 South Monroe Street. My role on the Landmark Ordinance Task Force was as a community representative. I've been an advocate for preservation in my own neighborhood as well as in the city as a former historic Denver board member.
Speaker 6: Other task force members represented different points of view, and not everyone was always on the same page.
Speaker 3: But each of us did have the opportunity to speak up.
Speaker 6: We all had to compromise on some things, but in the end agree that we were all on board with the final recommendations. The process involved many hours of meetings and also reading a lot of information sent out by landmark staff before each meeting.
Speaker 6: Please respect the.
Speaker 12: Work of the task.
Speaker 6: Force and adopt these recommendations tonight without any changes or delays. I want to emphasize the importance.
Speaker 9: Of the pause period.
Speaker 6: For owner opposed designations in older, older neighborhoods like mine. We have lost many older homes in recent years, including two which were important enough.
Speaker 9: To be posted by the.
Speaker 6: City as potentially eligible for designation. One of these was an architectural treasure known to most of us in the neighborhood, an intact Queen Anne House, which had one of favorite Old House award in 2009. The new owner had applied for a demolition permit and was planning to scrape the house in order to build a brand new home
Speaker 6: . I talked to this owner over the phone several times about considering ways that.
Speaker 9: He could both.
Speaker 6: Save the house and get the kind of home he wanted.
Speaker 12: But the tight.
Speaker 6: Deadline in the demo review process made that difficult. We never.
Speaker 9: Met face to.
Speaker 3: Face or had the.
Speaker 6: Time or.
Speaker 9: Expertize available to look at possibilities other.
Speaker 6: Than designation, other than demolition or designation. Sitting down together with a neutral facilitator, with city staff available to provide facts and other experts. We would have been would have been much more neighborly and given us a better chance to hear each other's perspectives.
Speaker 6: I don't know if the outcome would have been any different in this particular case, but a longer timeline would also have provided due respect to one of our neighborhoods important assets.
Speaker 3: Please adopt this proposed.
Speaker 6: Ordinance tonight so these updates can happen sooner rather than later. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Barbara Paul and then Mark Bowman, Amy Cole, Dennis Humphries and Gregorio Al Caro. If you want to come up to the front bench, go ahead.
Speaker 9: Thank you. My name is Barbara Paul, and I'm the senior vice president.
Speaker 7: For Preservation Field.
Speaker 9: Services for the National Trust for Historic Preservation. I work for the National Trust for 35 years, all the while residing here in Denver. I have been proud to have worked with the city, historic Denver and local property owners on the designation of the Lower Downtown Historic District in the 1980s and the downtown Historic District in 2001.
Speaker 9: Big, bold projects like these have demonstrated Denver's leadership in the field of historic preservation, leadership in particular that has benefited from the city's elected officials. As a result, as you've already heard, 300 individual landmarks and 50 stark neighborhoods, but that still only represents 4% of the city's built environment.
Speaker 9: But yet we.
Speaker 7: Are here to applaud your outcomes that.
Speaker 9: Will make it easier for Denver's diverse and culturally rich historic sites and neighborhoods to be considered for local landmark designation that will allow more time for property owners and community members to meet and consider alternatives to potential demolition.
Speaker 9: That is the forever loss of an historic property.
Speaker 7: And that will ease regulatory.
Speaker 9: Barriers and create greater flexibility for owners who want to protect their historically designated property. These changes represent best practices the National Trust has been promoting in other cities across the country, including in Miami, where we've been working with the city to protect the culture rich Little Havana neighborhood that was threatened by up zoning.
Speaker 9: And in Philadelphia, the cradle of America, where now the mayor's.
Speaker 7: Task force has included the creation of a new fund.
Speaker 9: To create incentives to encourage underserved communities to engage in the preservation of their neighborhoods. My colleague Jim Lindberg, who also is here in Denver in our office, recently sent you a letter in support of this bill, and he wrote the Landmark Protection Ordinance that has helped Denver achieve its reputation as one of America's most vibrant, livable and
Speaker 9: attractive cities, to which I would also add, culturally diverse. So as a preservation professional and a citizen of this city, I urge you to vote in favor of this bill.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next up, Mark Bowman.
Speaker 4: Good evening, President Clark, members of council, thank you for your time and consideration. My name is Mark Bowman. I'm here on behalf of DeMar Denver, Metro Boss Board of Realtors, the largest realtor association in Colorado, representing 7200 plus members.
Speaker 4: In addition to a member of DeMar, I'm a contractor and a realtor that have worked on historic homes for over 45 years. I'm also an Air Force veteran and a Lowry graduate. I'm here to express our support for the amendment package that is before you this evening.
Speaker 4: I had the opportunity to serve on the Landmark Preservation Task Force and attended each and every meeting and had that we had over 18 months before devolving. Delving into my comments, I'd like to thank staff and fellow task force members for all their hard work and time they possessed.
Speaker 4: Dee Myers, in a support of the package, was filed for the following reasons. First, we are hopeful that the pause period will provide non owner applicants and property owners the additional time and dialog prior to application going to LPC or City Council.
Speaker 4: Second, we support simplifying the designation criteria and adding culture, which is an important criteria to consider and designation process. Finally, we appreciate small language modifications that make it clear to council in giving consideration to property owners position when facing owner post designation.
Speaker 4: One of my favorite expressions is all the best agreements are reached when everybody is a little bit uncomfortable and I think everyone will agree that we were all a little uncomfortable but came to a consensus on this proposal.
Speaker 4: With that said, in light of three recent and one still unresolved owner opposed designations, it's no secret that we would like additional provisions for property owners facing unwanted landmark designations. And to be clear, to correct the record for something that was said in committee.
Speaker 4: It is not DeMarco's position to oppose landmark designation. On the contrary, we believe landmark designation has an important part of shaping our city, is a tool, has been used appropriately to save some of the city's most venerated buildings and coveted neighborhoods such as the Mayan Theater and Curtis Park.
Speaker 4: Three years ago, some of you called for Chapter 30 update for two main reasons. One, you wanted to end the ugly owner oppose landmark in front of city council. And two, you wanted to see additional provisions for property owners that had their backs against the wall that were that had to be very lopsided process.
Speaker 4: Unfortunately, this process missed the mark and accomplishing the second goal. We'd like to thank Councilmembers Black and Gilmore for bringing forward their amendments, especially the amendment proposed raising the bar for owner post designation. And even though that is not a part of this consideration, we would like serious consideration for this moving forward.
Speaker 0: I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you. Thank you. Amy, call.
Speaker 9: Good evening, members of Council. My name is Amy Cole and I'm a 20 year resident of West Highlands. I live on 29th Avenue. In March of 2018, I was asked to serve on the Landmark Ordinance Task Force as a neighborhood resident.
Speaker 9: And over the course of 18 months, I attended all but one of the meetings and was an active participant, including providing regular reports to my R.A., the West Highlands Neighborhood Association. Our work focused on ways to encourage dialog between the city community members and property owners during the landmark designation process, the clarification of ordinance, language and reviewing
Speaker 9: the kinds of historic significance a property should have in order to be considered for designation. Following outreach to the community about these proposed changes, the task force work concluded in June 2019 and represents the collective effort of 14 Volunteer Task Force Members, Council Persons Flynn and Ken each and was supported by Mike Hughes and the landmark and
Speaker 9: CPD staff. Our task force reached consensus about the proposal before you tonight and agree, and the agreement of the group was that it be submitted to council without amendment. Therefore, I ask you to please vote in favor of the ordinance package as it's been submitted.
Speaker 9: Thanks for your consideration.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Dennis Humphries.
Speaker 1: Good evening. I'm Dennis Humphries live at 10th and Cherokee in Denver. I'm an architect. I was a member of the task force. And I'm also here to support the revisions to the ordinance as as proposed by the task force.
Speaker 1: As everybody has stated, it was a lively group and of bringing different opinions to the table, and it was one that was resoundingly of great success. It was the chair of the Landmark Preservation Committee Commission. When a young student from the University of Colorado at Boulder came and tried to designate the Gates property.
Speaker 1: At that point, we felt as though the commission did their work in skillfully navigating and overwriting that designation. Since that time, the ordinance has been revised, and as with any ordinance, it's always up for need for further revisions.
Speaker 1: So again, I support the revisions for all the reasons that all the other members of the task force have stated. However, I would like to point out that it has been addressed, that there are several incentives that need to be addressed that are not part of this ordinance and would not be part of the Landmark Preservation Ordinance
Speaker 1: . And those are incentives to encourage people to want to preserve their properties, whether it be through tax benefits or other financial benefits. We need to work beyond this moment to make sure that those happen. We also need to further fund the Discover Denver program that has been ongoing for five years.
Speaker 1: This program has been predominantly financed by the state. It's the city's responsibility to push this forward. The purpose of this program is to inform and allow property owners to really know the value in the potential historic value of their property.
Speaker 1: So I would encourage you as a as a board, a council, to make sure that these initiatives, these incentives are pursued aggressively after this ordinance is passed. So as an architect, I believe one of my favorite sayings is that in the end, our society will not be defined by what we create.
Speaker 1: But but why we but what we refuse to destroy. So I encourage you this evening to support this ordinance. Thank you very much.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Gregorio Al Caro.
Speaker 8: Thank you. Members of City Council. I'm a Denver native. I represent a house called Casa Mayan at 10/29 Street and Tampa on the Aurora campus. I'm also an urban designer. I ask for your support in particularly the use of the word culture to be added to the updates.
Speaker 8: I particularly want to focus on social movements and culture as an example to better understand spaces through its social evolution. The Denver Landmark Commission in 1967 did not have the word culture they were use. They did hint, though, that buildings should not be frozen in time, that they needed to remain active.
Speaker 8: They needed to have a link to a memorable events. Using the word culture will prove successful, as I will give a successful case study with customer, an historic house in Denver, ninth Street Historic Park. We had a migration of many Mexican-Americans during the Mexican Revolution until the 1970s, a house that turned into a mutual aid society.
Speaker 8: It was a non religious non-governmental house that became a mutual ista mutual aid society. This house proved to be very important in understanding the Mexican-Americans and Irish-Americans importance of having spaces to preserve their culture. Music. Dance, food. Political gatherings.
Speaker 8: People like Betty and Vernita slaughtered. They had ETA. Richard de Castro found a place in a home to preserve their culture and engage in political discussions that would lead to the preservation of the alma Lincoln Park in the Chicano movement.
Speaker 8: In 40 years since the displacement, that house has been used for storage, for offices. But by using the word culture and bringing back a cultural narrative, that house has been brought back to life. Political discussions, cultural movements, historic design conferences.
Speaker 8: Culture is very critical. The students and the community bring life and spirit back to this house. This is not only an important tool for planners. Architects. Urban designers. Landscape architects. Public artist. It welcomes those to our country that have a particular heritage.
Speaker 8: They feel grounded when they know that cultural heritage, they feel welcome. And more importantly, they have a freedom to express their culture. This is a great design tool. It will lead to better urban design. Less divisiveness. And I strongly urge you to support.
Speaker 8: This amendment or this addition update. Good questions.
Speaker 0: Could you state your name for the record?
Speaker 8: Gregorio Alcala.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. All right. That does conclude our speakers this evening. Are there any questions from members of council clementines?
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. It's better when the microphones on. We have a ask a question about the Molly Brown house. From I. It doesn't matter that. Yeah. The question that I have is it looks like based on the presentation, three out of the current ten criteria are tied to the Molly Brown House meets
Speaker 5: three of the ten criteria, and we're moving from a 67% threshold to a 30% threshold. The Molly Brown House is a historic lead designated building now, correct?
Speaker 9: Yes. Correct. Historic. Never owns the Molly Brown house so I can speak definitively. Answer yep.
Speaker 5: So. But it also somehow met the 67% criteria threshold and now it meets only 30%. I guess that's that's that's my confusion.
Speaker 9: Yeah. We, I think spent maybe two whole task force meetings sort of trying to figure out this math piece around how do you maintain a high bar? Because it's not exactly apples to apples, because right now we require properties to meet at least two criteria out of three categories.
Speaker 9: And so that's where you get the 67 strip the categories. Then you could say it's 20% and we're going up to 30. So it's just essentially a different system. But as you saw, still maintains a pretty high bar.
Speaker 5: Okay. I was thinking I was pretty good with math, but that just wasn't enough for me. So thank you. That's that's all ahead. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Gilmore.
Speaker 9: Thank you, President. Clerk Cara, can I ask you a couple questions, please? Um, let me see. On the task force. Slide slide seven. Um, could you give us a breakdown of the task force makeup specifically around race and then the area of the city that folks lived in?
Speaker 12: Yes. So it was a primarily white task force. There were two Latina women, one of whom did not attend as regularly as as the other task force members. We it was a very technical task force. And so in preservation as a field, as well as the architects, realtors and developers is a primarily white field.
Speaker 12: We did attempt to diversify the task force on Councilwoman Can. Each provided us with some good contacts. We reached out and asked members to join the task force. They initially said yes and then after a couple of meetings of not attending, when we got back in touch with them and they said that no, they didn't feel like
Speaker 12: the task force intersected enough with their work or areas that they were working on in order to be able to attend. So it is admittedly a pretty white task force in terms of where people lived. We didn't check the addresses of everyone, but we did try to make sure that the neighborhoods, the representatives of the neighborhood were
Speaker 12: spread out. So we had someone on the West, someone from the south, and then we had two neighborhood representatives from the Park Hill area.
Speaker 9: Okay. Thank you. So you weren't able to get any residents, I guess, further east of Park Hill?
Speaker 12: No, there were no none of the neighborhood residents were. No. We did ask people to of the people that we asked, we asked someone who represented the little area in Swansea, a neighborhoods. And then someone from more the Montebello area.
Speaker 12: And those were the people who said initially said yes and then said no, that this really didn't meet the the needs of what they were working on.
Speaker 9: And so I guess the technical nature of the task force and what you were reviewing, I guess, for the four neighborhood residents that served on the task force. How did you get them versus other neighborhood individuals?
Speaker 12: We looked for people who had so so two of the neighbors from Park Hill where people who had lived in the proposed historic district that had been proposed for Park Hill, and they were two neighbors who were not supportive of preservation.
Speaker 12: And we really wanted to make sure that we got people who were familiar somewhat with the historic districts or the landmark processes. So it was one of the things we looked at. We were looking at people who were either supportive or not supportive.
Speaker 12: We wanted someone who was familiar with preservation to a little bit of a degree. And so we chose the two or we asked the two people from the Park Hill neighborhood two to come as residents who had gone through the process or started to go through the district process.
Speaker 12: So we chose or asked those two members to join, and then we asked for two other neighborhood residents who were more supportive of preservation and trying to make sure that they were from other, other neighborhoods. And we wanted to make sure that they were from different parts of the city.
Speaker 9: So would it be a true statement then that out of the 16 members on the task force, you didn't have at least neighborhood representation that was maybe against.
Speaker 12: LAMB We had to, yeah, that the two neighbors from Park Hill were not supportive of protesters in.
Speaker 9: Support of gender neutral. Okay.
Speaker 12: Not supportive or neutral? Sorry. Not.
Speaker 9: That's okay. All right. And then I guess it sounds like early on in the process then, since you were trying to backfill with additional task force members, did you ever reach out to the council officers? We asked them to recommend people or through our registered neighborhood organizations, faith based organizations, nonprofit organizations, to ask us for recommendations.
Speaker 12: We did not. We spoke with Councilwoman Kennedy, but we did not reach out to the other council district offices.
Speaker 9: Okay. And then on further in your slide deck, the community meetings that you held, as close as I can see, it looks like that would be open to the public. There were four of them that weren't, you know, kind of hosted by a different group.
Speaker 9: Were any of your community meetings held in the Montebello or Green Valley Ranch neighborhoods?
Speaker 12: No, they were not. We had one on the West Side. We had one in Virginia Village, we had one in. We did office hours in the Blair Caldwell Library. And there's a fourth one. And I'm sorry, I'm forgetting where that one was, but none and.
Speaker 12: MONDELLO No.
Speaker 9: Okay. Or North Green Valley Ranch? No. Okay. And then with the task force, I guess, where did the conversation go? Or around the process, especially in the importance of perhaps reaching out to vulnerable neighborhoods that are at risk of gentrification or involuntary displacement?
Speaker 9: I guess where did the task force go with that conversation? And yeah, where did they go with that conversation?
Speaker 12: We had some conversations about displacement, but we also talked about it was one of the things that was brought up in problem identification and then it was scaled back because we only represent landmark is 4% of the city and that wasn't we did not feel it was something that the landmark ordinance could take on.
Speaker 12: That displacement is a huge issue within the city and was not necessarily something that landmark preservation could solve. It was something that was brought up and discussed, but it was determined that the landmark ordinance maybe wasn't the place to have that full discussion.
Speaker 9: So there was. So it sounded like there was maybe never a conversation around looking at large parcels of land in neighborhoods that are mainly African-American and Latino and possibly vulnerable. But there was never an overlay or further in-depth conversation around if there was a landmarking of, say, for example, a church property that now you're the different criteria
Speaker 9: , opens it up to more availability for it to be landmarked. But there was never really a back and forth conversation of how might that affect equity in the neighborhood? How might that encourage, you know, just I guess, distrust, unrest when there might be especially around an owner opposed designation and especially let me add on to that.
Speaker 9: If that owner opposed designation was possibly a group of Caucasian residents that were trying to landmark perhaps an African-American or Latino property. Was that specific scenario played out, talked about how can we get to a win win solution?
Speaker 12: A That particular scenario was not talked about in the incentives discussion. We talked about adding are there ways to add density to traditionally one unit or to unit to unit zone districts and ways to if something is designated, could you add density to that neighborhood then or to that to that with that building that if someone designates
Speaker 12: the building, then you could increase the number of units that could be in the property. So an ability to add density to neighborhoods. But we didn't talk specifically about places of worship or churches in the task force or discussed the exact scenario that you had asked about.
Speaker 9: Okay. All right. Thank you. Thank you, President Park.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. Let me see who I need to ask this question. I wanted to inquire about the increase in the zoning incentives here, and maybe you can help me out here in terms of what what those might entail.
Speaker 12: So we looked at what other cities were doing and we looked at like. What Portland was doing and talking a little bit about adding density to a one or two unit zone districts, so increasing density that way. We talked about blueprint Denver has talked about you know is encouraging to use throughout the city are beginning to have
Speaker 12: that conversation. So we talked about would 80 use be allowed in any historic districts or individual landmarks? Could that sort of be the first place to add on to to add density and allow an incentive for designation? So that was one of the other areas we talked about.
Speaker 12: We also looked at there are other cities for lower parking requirements to allow administrative adjustments or administrative ah, variances for things like set back, open space, things like that. Those were sort of the zoning areas that we saw that other cities were doing.
Speaker 12: Some other cities did things like, if you're a landmark and you're going through the permitting process, some of your fees are waived through the building and zoning process. There are a few areas like that that we looked at as well.
Speaker 7: Okay. That's that's all very helpful. So when you talked about the parcel, it is really just if if your property is large enough to attach an additional unit on the property, maybe not necessarily attached to the structure. None of those include tweaks to the actual building, correct.
Speaker 12: Yeah. I mean, you could you currently can have what are either administrative adjustments for things like height or a bulk plane, or you can have variances that go to Board of Adjustment. And we currently recommend administrative adjustments or variances if the changes to the property would be something that would be compatible with the character of the building
Speaker 12: . So additions, something like if you have a gable house like a queen in and you wanted to use the attic space, and the way to do that would be to add some sort of gable or dormers on the side.
Speaker 12: You would pierce the bulk plane, but that you could get an adjustment for that. And so it would maintain the character of the building, but allow additional use within the building as well.
Speaker 7: Okay. So any I want to have you come up and just ask you kind of a follow up question. I know having worked on the old courthouse building at Colfax and Kellman, when the development team was looking at making a change to the staircase on the inside.
Speaker 7: So it wasn't even tinkering with the outside of the building because they were trying to secure some state historic funds. They couldn't do that otherwise. They had to forgo utilizing those resources. So how much do some of these tweaks impact a property owners ability to then access some of the state funding that might be available?
Speaker 9: Right. So the expectations and the regulations of the state historical fund or the National Park Service for folks using tax credits are are different than the local standards because in Denver we don't Landmark's does not review interior changes.
Speaker 9: You can get some relief and we've had this happen with local landmarks. If your historic railing isn't quite the right height, you can get some adjustments. And and we're talking about the task force to talk about other ways to remove barriers to adaptive reuse, things like that that can become investment hurdles that folks can't get over as
Speaker 9: they're trying to change the use of a building. So we think there is more that can be done to add flexibility. And then owners will have to make the decision about whether that added flexibility outweighs the the federal or the state incentive that they might get in a different manner.
Speaker 9: But yeah, so that both are sort of separate things. And in terms of the idea around sort of adding density to historic landmarks, we have some examples of that. There's a church on Sixth Avenue where the church was converted into residential and then a row of condos was built behind it on their adjacent land.
Speaker 9: And so we talked about ways that you could facilitate those kinds of solutions.
Speaker 7: Holy Ghost.
Speaker 9: Church. Right. Really creative.
Speaker 7: While you're there, let me ask one last question. Dennis brought up an issue, Dennis Humphries, about Discover Denver. Do you have any idea how what percentage of of completeness we're at on that project? I don't know, Carol. Maybe that's something for you to answer.
Speaker 7: But if you have the information, that would be helpful since you're up there.
Speaker 9: I think Kara and I were just comparing our notes here. I believe it is somewhere between 15 and 18% of the city that has been completed in the first five years. So there's a long way to go still.
Speaker 7: And that's among those that are still left.
Speaker 9: Among the what?
Speaker 7: Among those properties that are still left, because some of those that may have been surveyed might not exist anymore.
Speaker 9: That's true. Since we started discovered Denver, there have been 3000 demolitions in the city. So. Yeah. Okay.
Speaker 7: Thank you so much. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to. I buzzed in when Councilman Hines was talking about math, and I think Kara might know what I'm going to bring out here in my in my questioning of her. But on the chart where we we are one of the toughest to meet, two out of three criteria.
Speaker 4: I think Kara will will recall that at each task force meeting, I pointed out that that was not exactly true. It was two out of ten criteria. It's just that we group the ten criteria into three categories. And of the two criteria, you must meet.
Speaker 4: At a minimum, they must be in two of the three categories. So what the task force did and Kara, could you stand at the mic so that this appears to be a question rather than a comment? Thank you.
Speaker 4: What what we ended up doing on the task force was we just eliminated categories. But because of that, because it might be very simple to meet to if I can pull up the code, it would be very simple for a property to meet two criteria in any one category direct association with historic event and direct association to
Speaker 4: the person who had influence on a society. So in order to not lower the bar by eliminating the categories, that my recollection is what led us to say you need to be three criteria. But they could all still be in what used to be the same category.
Speaker 4: Correct?
Speaker 9: That is correct.
Speaker 4: And then adding, we added culture. And in doing that, in order to maintain the ten categories and not expand it to 12 or 14, we edited it. We did a lot of wordsmithing and we edited some of the create the existing criteria that appear to maybe have a lot of similarities and we would combine them into just
Speaker 4: one. So overall, by doing away with criteria, we're going from 20% to 30%, not from 67% to 30%.
Speaker 12: If you could, you could do the math that way.
Speaker 4: Yes. Thank you. And that was for Councilman Hines at the end. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman Flynn. Councilman CdeBaca.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I see a representative from the Colorado Latino Forum here wondering. I didn't see you on the list, but would you be willing to come up and speak? Thank you. Yes. So I am curious about the Latino Forum's involvement or your understanding of how this change impacts the ability of diverse communities to either stay
Speaker 3: in place, stay in communities, or impact preservation themselves.
Speaker 0: Sure, I think.
Speaker 10: Of the people on TV. My name is Ian Thomas Tafoya, and this topic actually intersects along three groups that I'm involved with I.N.S. Zoning and Planning, the Colorado Latino Forum. And I'm also a trustee of historic Denver. So I think if I say this earlier, I'm in favor of this.
Speaker 10: I do think that adding culture allows more communities to have a voice in the process. With historic Denver and with Landmark. We've been working towards a cultural district just in West Denver, in the Lama neighborhood, and we've been able to put forward the idea that it's not always just about one built form, that there are several built
Speaker 10: forms that fit into a cultural context and trying to find that. In fact, I had a meeting last week. So as you go down along with me in hopes of gaining our support, which they did, to create a to seek a grant for a cultural context which will help align this all the way around.
Speaker 10: I will add that, you know, along this process, I was frustrated when the first when I first saw the landmark map, because there were parts of your district and all of West Denver where the key was on top of it.
Speaker 10: And as you know, in the Chicano movement, if you're not part of the maps, are not part of the conversation. And so we were able to actually work with them and the Justice Department to change that. I think part of the reason you don't hear about a lot of people on the task force who have the skill
Speaker 10: set is because there aren't any districts in our communities because we've been missing this component. There are very few landmarks in West Denver. It's something that I have put on the strategic plan for historic Denver, and I think things that were working forward.
Speaker 10: One idea that I've had is I think that during the MPI process we have a great opportunity to educate people about this and other conservation tools. This was in the Blueprint Plan and also to avoid landmarking disputes. We have a really unique opportunity as communities at that time to decide what landmarks are important in their community early
Speaker 10: on in the whole planning process rather than later.
Speaker 3: Thank you. And quick question for Councilwoman Ortega. I live in Swansea and I know that prior to the I-70 expansion, there were community conversations about making Elyria Historic District. Do you recall what the pushback was on that? Because I know we couldn't meet the criteria, but do you remember what exactly the pushback was about?
Speaker 7: I believe that was done under Councilwoman Monteiro at the time. It was not something I was directly involved in. And Councilwoman said, what were you working.
Speaker 9: For at the time of.
Speaker 3: My that.
Speaker 7: When that conversation came up? Because I'm not familiar with why that didn't happen. And I do know that in the application of the environmental assessment, it speaks to the neighborhoods, both the Lurie and Swansea, as historic communities because of the longstanding history and specifically the impact the I-70 project has had on those neighborhoods.
Speaker 3: And I ask this question really to emphasize how difficult it has been for different groups to preserve our communities. I believe that what I recall from that process was that we were told that none of the houses in our district, even though it was a historic neighborhood, were in in good enough condition to consider in a historic
Speaker 3: district. And I think that this is an excellent move in the right direction to make sure that we have some of those barriers eliminated. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Hines, you back up?
Speaker 5: Yes, sir. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to have the city come up again for a second. Thank you. So I live in Denver is perfect. Ten and I happen to represent it too. In Denver is perfect ten.
Speaker 5: I bet you can already anticipate the questions, but for the folks on the outside, there was a conversation around Tom's Diner not too long ago, and I am curious to hear the city's thoughts on how this might the new process might have have affected that that process.
Speaker 12: Yes. So I know that there were community members who were and still are having conversations with the Thomas of the property owner about is there a way to provide him with the with the appropriate recompense or the money for his property while also being able to preserve the building?
Speaker 12: And so I know it's a conversation that is still ongoing. I think that had the pause been there, there would have been a little it would have allowed a little more breathing room for the conversation to occur. Instead of feeling like it was being really compressed in to allow that conversation, which is still going on now, to
Speaker 12: have been able to do it without the the tight pressure and deadline. And I think it may have helped the process go a little bit smoother.
Speaker 5: Okay. I mean, I guess so. It's the city's opinion or you're through the stakeholder engagement process is the stakeholder engagement for this. The I'm assuming you guys talked about Tom Steiner or or had you already wrapped up by the time it started.
Speaker 12: The task force had already completed the work and it was sort of in midsummer. And so it had already gone out to the public for comment. The task force had already completed all of their work on when the Tom Steiner came in for the demo review and then the posting and then the subsequent designation application.
Speaker 5: Okay. And so the one last thing I would ask about Tom Steiner, I think Councilwoman CdeBaca mentioned in her neighborhood, none of the houses are in good enough quality to be preserved. I, I don't represent beautiful district nine and I'm not as familiar with it.
Speaker 5: Perhaps the city is more familiar with it. I think that one of the reasons why Tom Steiner was a better opportunity for historic preservation was, frankly, because it wasn't well, it wasn't as well maintained and preserved as as some other locations.
Speaker 5: So I'm going to guess.
Speaker 6: Sorry. Yes.
Speaker 12: So when you're looking to designate something, we look at integrity versus condition. So integrity is does the building convey the reasons for which it would be designated? Would someone who was at that building when it was constructed or when it was historically significant, does it look like that now?
Speaker 12: But we don't actually look at the condition of the building. Is it a little bit deteriorated? That's not something that comes into the conversation as to whether or not it's eligible to be a landmark. It's the integrity of the building, not the condition of the building.
Speaker 5: Okay. And so are the buildings in Swansea. Are they is their integrity just degraded or are.
Speaker 12: There there is integrity in those. I know that the Discover Denver has gone through and has recommended that there are areas or concentrations of buildings in Globeville, Illyria and Swansea that would be eligible to be Denver landmarks. And so we have surveyed all three of the neighborhoods and have found that there are properties that are worthy of
Speaker 12: designation that retain integrity, and that would be significant. And those were looked at under our previous criteria because we were there a couple of years ago during the survey. If we were looking at it now with the culture it may have, the areas may be slightly expanded.
Speaker 5: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. All right. See no other questions. The public hearing for comfortable 914 is closed. Comments by members of council. Councilwoman can each.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I first just wanted to thank all of the members of the task force who participated along the way, as well as those who are here tonight and those who cannot be. Whenever we bring together the community and ask them to spend, you know, a significant amount of time grappling with an issue.
Speaker 6: It's a service you do to us because you breed debate some of the things that we're going to debate here. And so I. Q is disappointed by our inability to get more representative sampling of folks. We worked hard, we failed, and we are responsible for that and need to continue to reflect on the diversity of the fields
Speaker 6: and the the experience from which we drew. It is my hope, and we did have the most conversation about race and equity with regard to the cultural criteria and how getting beyond just the idea of a famous person where we all remember the name.
Speaker 6: I mean, history books are written by folks who don't always remember the name of famous people of color. And so the idea that you can know a place is famous to a community without knowing the names of all the participants who might have gone to that home or gone to that business, I think is an equalizer in
Speaker 6: a way to bring up more opportunities. And so it's my hope that in a generation when we have this conversation, you know, there are a broader array of properties that have come forward. So I think that the culture criteria piece was really important.
Speaker 6: I want to comment for just a second on the request or the statement that, you know, we came together with the directive from council to, you know, make it harder to designate. That was the directive of several members of council.
Speaker 6: That was their desire. That was not a vote of the majority of council to see to landmark task force to make it more difficult to designate. There were a diversity of opinions. And Councilman Flynn and I, for example, were appointed with different perspectives on that representative of a council that had a diversity of opinion.
Speaker 6: So I just want to clarify that while some members wanted that. Others like myself were more concerned about reaching a balance to achieve the goals. One of the debates we had is whether landmark is a neutral process or not, and I think the way to be honest about it is, is not it is about preserving a piece
Speaker 6: of the history. It's not neutrally evaluating and then mediating between two parties. It is saying it's important to us as a city that we have pieces of our past that are preserved for future generations. And that future generation piece is an interesting piece of this debate.
Speaker 6: Right. So are you preserving for the neighbor who lives next door so that nothing ever changes? Are you preserving for, you know, the property owner in terms of their value, which often frankly increases with designation? If you think about LoDo, I don't think anyone would consider that to be an area that has been financially disadvantaged perhaps by
Speaker 6: by preservation limited in what they can build in how tall. So perhaps on day one there's an economic tradeoff, but the future generation and the long term value. Right, I think in this. So that's what I think this ordinance does.
Speaker 6: This ordinance says we're in it for the long game and we're protecting some values, not for, you know, me or you, but for those who come way after us. Right. So that they can remember and learn, just as we do when we talk about properties that come through.
Speaker 6: So. So for me, that's the the vision or the, the values I brought into the process is how to balance that value with these competing interests. But to achieve a vision and a goal, which is what the ordinance preamble really sets out.
Speaker 6: And in a city that's changing as quickly is done as Denver is, I think that's an important piece. It's not just balancing each property owners interests with each, you know, neighboring interest. It's about balancing the overall rate of change in the city with the overall preservation.
Speaker 6: So so it's a big task and it's a hard one because then we do come down to individual property decisions. So I really I feel very proud. You know, we we could have chosen to do a majority vote approach, perhaps as a task force.
Speaker 6: I've certainly been a part of task forces where the goal is to get people's opinions and then the staff goes ahead and makes a recommendation leader. We call it stakeholder input. This process set out for consensus, and I will admit that it disappoints me a little that groups that advocated for tradeoffs during the process and got those
Speaker 6: tradeoffs now are asking for additional changes that they were not able to get to consensus at the table. That's hard for me because it feels like a little bit like you got half of what you wanted along the way and then now you're asking for the other half from a different process.
Speaker 6: But I get that this is democracy and that that's the right of groups to do. I am glad that we're here now with the ordinance we have. I hope folks will consider carefully decisions that try to go to extreme measures.
Speaker 6: I don't want to see our city mired in retaliatory ballot measure fights like we've seen in our neighboring communities who feel like if we're not able to preserve our history, then we should limit all growth, because that's the kind of conversation this could very quickly spiral into.
Speaker 6: I don't think that's helpful for us. I think each step forward, we work to get to this place of achieving the goals of the ordinance in a way that is most respectful and most considerate of the owners involved, but can't quite go to the level of saying we'll never do it without permission.
Speaker 6: Right? We would not have LoDo if we if we needed permission. And so I think that's a decision I can stand by. I can say my predecessors had wisdom and I'm sure my colleague can tell me how many kicks they took about private property rights.
Speaker 6: But history, I think, will smile on that decision. It's hard to sit in these seats and make the decision at the moment, but I do feel like this ordinance is the right direction, both for meeting the goals of this ordinance as well as for what the city needs today.
Speaker 6: It was an honor to be a part of it as a total inexperienced individual with no technical knowledge of building types and architecture. But and I appreciate my colleague, Councilman Flynn, who we had we were a microcosm of the debate and yet respectfully worked to find common ground, just like everybody who participated.
Speaker 6: So I hope this council will find that common ground tonight while we continue to strive for closer to perfection in terms of our inclusiveness of this preservation. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilwoman Cameron CdeBaca.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to thank the task force and Annie and Ms.. Hahn for making sure that even without the representation that was necessary, equity was at the forefront of what you guys were doing here.
Speaker 3: I speak from personal experience when I say this really opens a door for a lot of opportunities in our community. Having known what happened when our community tried to preserve, to protect against the eminent domain abuse and the highway expansion, and then also watching my brother lose his house, a Victorian house to the national western and protests
Speaker 3: all along when the city was trying to take it that it was a historic property, it was a historic property. And to be told no. And then to see a sign posted up the week they were going to demolish it, saying that it was being studied for landmark and historic preservation really shows me how much you all
Speaker 3: have been doing to investigate what truly is worth preserving in this city. And so I appreciate it. And I hope to see many more spaces that reflect our contributions to this city preserved and landmarked. So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Sandoval.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I would just like to start by saying thank you to the task force members. Your work on this issue is really important. So over the last four years, we think Council District one, we had three nonlinear historic designations and one historic district.
Speaker 3: So this update is really important to Northwest Denver and important to the district that I represent. I'm excited about the addition of culture. A couple of years ago, we wanted to look at preserving Navajo Street as an Italian district and Italian area as the Italians had moved out.
Speaker 3: And there was no way to do that and there is no tool in the toolbox. And so now that is gone. And that said and done, and unfortunately it's a little bit too late for that. So thank you for adding the cultural piece.
Speaker 3: And I just want to talk about the pause. Currently right now in Council District one on 46th and Tennyson. There is a non owner historic designation application in the Q and what we did was we looked at this ordinance and I took advantage of this pause and I asked both parties to come together and have a third
Speaker 3: party facilitator. And a pause was agreed to. So we are taking a 60 day pause on that application right now. Last week was the hearing, and it's postponed to November 12th to try to find different different outcomes for that property.
Speaker 3: So I really do think that this pause can work. And then another issue has come up is last month I attended a city led community presentation about a possible historic district in northwest Denver. And it was the first time in all the years.
Speaker 3: Of working in city council since 2012, where the city led the process and the city sent out the invitation. And it was very informative. It was very neutral. Both everyone was able to come out. It wasn't the applicants, it was the city.
Speaker 3: So I want and then they're going to also take advantage of this survey without this ordinance being implemented. So Council District One is already taking advantage of many of these ideas that have come forward through this task force and these recommendations.
Speaker 3: And I'm excited for them because I remember sitting over the past four years, sitting in the council office, hearing hours of testimony and knowing the houses intimately that were up and watching, feeling very conflicted about what type of preservation was needed, and the fact that 13 council members get to decide the future of neighborhood character in northwest
Speaker 3: Denver. And it just did not seem fair. So I just have to say thank you all for working on this, because this is, as you all can see, northwest Denver has been the battleground because the one historic property that they mentioned in their presentation, Beth Eaton Church, that's once again in Council District one on law.
Speaker 3: So Northwest Denver really has been the battleground for the past five years with historic designation, the certificate of non historic status. And I've sat at the table during that 21 day time clock where a certificate of non historic status came in.
Speaker 3: As a council aide, I had to reach out. I had to get there are no I had to get everyone at the table. I had to negotiate some of them and some of the applications got pulled. And with the help of historic Denver, the applicant was actually refunded the $200 when they had when they pulled their certificate
Speaker 3: of non historic status. And I will tell you it is stressful, it is not proactive work and so thank you for being proactive and just I really cannot thank you enough for working on this and I hope that the pause works regardless.
Speaker 3: It's a form of communication and sometimes on the other side of conflict and uneasy conversations, good things can come out. So thank you for your work. Thank you, President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman Kelton Gilmore.
Speaker 9: Thank you, President Clark. You know, I want to thank Kara and Annie and the task force and of course, the important work and time of my colleagues, Councilwoman each and Councilman Flynn. And I am pleased with a majority of the additions and changes, including adding culture.
Speaker 9: That being said, I am always troubled when there might be a process, especially through the owner opposed landmark designation that private property rights would be violated or affected. And it's disappointing that the task force didn't look at at least raising the bar by either a vote of nine or ten members of city council to really encourage folks
Speaker 9: to come to the table and get to what was said here tonight, a win win outcome. And when Councilwoman Black and I had both proposed in committee to require only on the honor imposed designations a supermajority, we were unsuccessful in getting that support.
Speaker 9: And I honor the opinions and background of my colleagues. But I also want us to be looking closely at how this unrolls, how it plays out. I agree with Ian's comment about, you know, when we don't get to participate in this process in our neighborhoods, it makes it very hard.
Speaker 9: Were put at a disadvantage to be part of the process to understand items that are very technical that you said here tonight. If we don't get the opportunity to play in that arena, then we are at a disadvantage.
Speaker 9: And so I appreciate, you know, Kara reaching out, us having a good conversation and I will be supportive of this tonight. Thank you, President Clark.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. President. I had my thanks to the staff and to the task force for the good work that they did. And I want to thank.
Speaker 4: My colleagues for.
Speaker 0: Continuing.
Speaker 1: To bring.
Speaker 4: Up the importance of equity.
Speaker 1: In everything that we're doing in the city.
Speaker 0: Just finished our budget.
Speaker 1: Presentations and for the first time, I think in the city's history, equity is.
Speaker 4: Is held up as a top.
Speaker 1: Value. We have an enormous.
Speaker 4: Amount of work to do to figure out how to actually address that. But but it's on the.
Speaker 1: Table and as it should have been for a long time. I appreciated what Councilman Kennedy said. As far as what we're doing here is an acknowledgment.
Speaker 0: That.
Speaker 1: Preservation of the.
Speaker 4: Important parts of our past is a community that, as well as equity preservation, have important elements of our past is an important value.
Speaker 1: I also very much appreciated Councilwoman Gilmore and Councilwoman Black's putting forth a couple of amendments. I have struggled over the issue of should there be a higher bar on owner opposed.
Speaker 4: And I was.
Speaker 1: Very convinced that there should be looking at the reality of how things have played out that we've had one owner opposed pass in six years. I'm wondering if, along with the pause that this new package brings forward, if we might have hit on what we need as far as that tool to.
Speaker 4: To better solve those contentious.
Speaker 1: Situations.
Speaker 4: There are enormously.
Speaker 1: Painful district one had a couple when when I first came on council and they are enormously painful trying to weigh the community's well-being with.
Speaker 4: Private property owners.
Speaker 1: Well-Being. I will be anxious to see how this latest tool.
Speaker 4: Helps resolve those.
Speaker 1: Tensions. I have a hunch that that it will do a great deal in that regard. The last thing I wanted to mention is, is the need, as it was talked about, for increased funding for Discovery Denver. You know, we have what was it, 18% of the city is covered and that's wonderful.
Speaker 1: But that even I can.
Speaker 4: Do that math. Councilman Hines, that's.
Speaker 1: 82% of the city that's that's not covered. And that's a potential tragedy.
Speaker 4: And we those of us who have been around Denver a long time, have seen a whole lot of important structures go away that I.
Speaker 1: Think would have made a wonderful education of of where.
Speaker 4: Denver has been and how we got to where we are today. So I would hope that as we go through the budget process, we can find some money to accelerate that the Discover Denver effort.
Speaker 0: So with that, again.
Speaker 4: Congratulations on.
Speaker 0: A lot of good hard.
Speaker 4: Work and I look forward to supporting this this evening.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to share my appreciation to all of you who were involved in this process, in bringing to us what is very clear was a compromise document with lots of give and take on both sides.
Speaker 7: And so to Kara and Annie, appreciate your your help along with my colleagues as well for your input in bringing something forward. When we did the lower downtown historic district, not everybody was happy with that either. But time showed that after the second two year review, everybody came forward and said, Just get rid of it.
Speaker 7: Just get rid of it, because we're happy with the way it's working. And so I think and if it's not, guess what? We can bring it back. It doesn't mean we're locked in stone if it's not working. But I think we've got to give it a try.
Speaker 7: And I just have to say, I live in one of these old houses and they're not cheap to maintain, right, if you want to maintain the character of it. So being able to have access to the various incentives becomes really important, whether it's being able to add on a unit, if you've got a lot size big enough
Speaker 7: to do that or you know, if it's just accessing some of the historic funds from the state or the National Trust for Historic Preservation, that also makes resources available. So for people in our community who are wanting to do the right thing, I think it is important that we have those tools readily available to them where they
Speaker 7: don't have to like hunt all over town to find them, but to be able to go to one place where it's easy to access the information and then know what's available to them. To be successful in trying to preserve their property.
Speaker 7: The data alone shows that with all the applications that have been brought forward, they don't all make it to the floor of council. So the the work that is done by our city staff in historic Denver and in trying to lay out the information because oftentimes you guys are the go to place for for people to try
Speaker 7: to, you know, pull the information. Our library is great, but oftentimes you already have much of that history on Denver neighborhoods and properties. And so that that makes it a little bit, you know, easier for people to just pull their their applications together.
Speaker 7: So so I think the the process has worked. And again, you know, some of those that have come before this body, they have an all they haven't all been approved either. Some of them have. Some of them have not.
Speaker 7: But I wanted to speak very briefly to the Swans here neighborhood and the fact that during the time that the environmental assessment was was being put together, the state, when they looked at the mitigation issues, they did not want to tinker with the exterior windows because of the historic character of the neighborhood.
Speaker 7: And it's probably a lot to do with cost as well, but that's why they ended up only doing interior windows for the residents that were within 500 feet of each side of the highway. I appreciate the fact that culture is being added because I think that there are lots of things like if you look at Santa Fe
Speaker 7: and some of the buildings along Santa Fe, that played a big role, the Walton Street corridor that was spoken to earlier. You know, across our city, we have some areas of town that played a major role in the history of our city that oftentimes are never included in the history books that our kids learn about our city
Speaker 7: . Right. Or their community. They're getting Western history information and European history, but not typically their own local history. And the contributions that, you know, people from their own community made in in shaping the city of what it is today.
Speaker 7: So I think we've got a great roadmap in front of us and a tremendous opportunity to utilize the criteria in a in a different way that I think will create more flexibility for the applicants. And at the same time, I think having those incentives will encourage more people to look at trying to take advantage of saving.
Speaker 7: Part of the history of our city, because I live in a neighborhood that doesn't look anything like what it used to. And every day very nice brick structures are being just torn down. And if you live on one side, a zoo, nice street, you're in a protected part.
Speaker 7: If you're on the other side, you're in the neighborhood where it's drastically changing. So this is a good thing. Thank you. I'll be voting for it.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Hines.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank the committee for all the hard work that you've done. You know, I'm new on council, not as new as I was a couple of months ago, but still new. And as I sit here on Monday nights and in committee, you get to learn a little bit more about my values
Speaker 5: . I also get to learn a bit more about my own values. I get a little bit of self reflection as well, and I think that's healthy for all of us to have this growing process together. But speaking of values, I talked earlier about stakeholder process and transparency, and I.
Speaker 5: I learned briefly, or rather I learned quickly about the importance of the stakeholder process. A lot of people talked about the climate change bill and how they were frustrated, frustrated with the lack of stakeholder process. Frankly, from my perspective, President Clark reached out to me the day after I won the runoff election.
Speaker 5: So he was all over it. As far as you know, as far as I knew that his stakeholder process was robust. But anyway, I really enjoy that this process had a robust stakeholder process and that it considered, you know, private property rights, it considered a supermajority.
Speaker 5: It decided to go with the the compromise that we see in front of us. You know, I, too, am interested in private property rights. When I heard about Tom Steiner, or rather when Tom Steiner came before us, you know, it also was in divorce.
Speaker 5: Perfect ten. We heard a lot about private property rights from people all over the U.S. and maybe some beyond. But certainly we had people from all over the United States writing in to the District ten office and and talking about private property rights.
Speaker 5: So I recognize that that's an important consideration for a lot of people all over America and including people in District ten. I also think that it is important for us to not. To be very measured when we arbitrarily limit City Council's power and a supermajority of nine or ten votes makes it more difficult for us to effectively
Speaker 5: represent the city because we are representing our districts. And. And if we go from a majority to a supermajority, I think that that makes it more difficult for for me to represent my district, even if the particular vote is in a different district.
Speaker 5: So I'm glad that we are at least taking this incremental approach and we're considering a straight majority. And the funky math is we are going from two thirds threshold to 30% or from 20% to 30%. And apparently both of those calculations work.
Speaker 5: But either way, I think it's great that we've had a stakeholder process that has come up with what we what we have in front of us today. So I will be supporting it. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Sawyer.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to point out that I reached out to my constituents when I was asked to consider the idea of a supermajority and with just a very nonscientific survey among people.
Speaker 6: And 57% of them came back and said that they supported a nine vote supermajority. So I think, you know, I think that I'm very supportive of the the ordinance as it's coming through tonight. I think it's a great ordinance.
Speaker 6: I'm really you know, I really congratulate all of you guys who worked so hard on this. But I do think that there is an element of awareness in our community that did not exist before this summer, when Tom's Diner happened, when when that situation came through, that has sort of woke in the community up to the issue
Speaker 6: of personal property rights in a way that maybe didn't exist before. And so maybe next time around, it's something that should come back up and be considered again. I definitely am supportive of tonight, but I just wanted to put it out there that when I asked and reached out to my constituents, 57% did support a nine person
Speaker 6: supermajority. So thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. So, Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. I, I, too, want to thank the staff and the members of the task force with whom I served and Councilwoman Keech for a very robust discussion and process that truly did land in the center where people on one side or another are always giving up something and never getting everything they want.
Speaker 4: I really do want to thank them for that. I did learn one thing in this process on the task force that surprised me, and that is that when we had those contentious, excuse me, landmark things up in District one, that all three of which were defeated.
Speaker 4: I realized through this task force process that it wasn't that necessarily that we were being harder and more strict on owner opposed applications. I realized that we were being much less strict, much more lenient, if you will, on owner supported.
Speaker 4: And one that came to mind in particular was in Councilman Cashman's district on South Adam Street. I think it was the I Love House or what was it, their very large property on South Adams Street where the owner came in and sought designation.
Speaker 4: And I, I realized that far from being harder on the ones that were owner opposed, we were sort of just being of the owner wants it. Sure, I can see how it fits all the criteria. And that was a real eye opener for me.
Speaker 4: The other thing that I really like about this version is the addition of the cultural criteria, because I believe, as I believe, Councilwoman Torres, I was the one who mentioned the lack of designations on the West Sides, particularly Southwest side.
Speaker 4: There's only one designated landmark in Denver, south of Sixth Avenue and west of the Platte River, and that's the field officers quarters in on Fort Logan on the parade ground. Well, thanks to the Loreto Heights plan that we adopted a couple of weeks ago, there will soon be more.
Speaker 4: The Loreto Heights Academy in the chapel, possibly Pancreases Hall and looking down the road to a district designation on the campus as well. But with the cultural criteria being added, I think we can look beyond these large, obvious landmarking options that we have and look to more that more designations that speak to the to the people who
Speaker 4: built this city and the people who made this city. And I'm looking forward to scouring perhaps with Councilwoman Torres scouring the West Side and looking for opportunities and to solicit more more applications from owners who are willing to do this.
Speaker 4: So I will be supporting this. Mr. President, thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman Flynn. Councilman Ortega, did you have some quick things?
Speaker 7: I don't know why they're still up there. All right.
Speaker 0: All right. Well, I will just close this before we vote by saying one more time thank you to all the task force members for all the time they put in. Thank you to Councilman Flynn and Councilman Ken each for representing some different sides of the coin for us in this process and all the extra hours that took
Speaker 0: into our staff for going through all of this. I will be supporting this tonight. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 2: See the burqa. I flip.
Speaker 1: All right.
Speaker 2: Gilmore, I. Hi.
Speaker 5: Yes.
Speaker 2: Cashman. Can I? Ortega. Sandoval. Sawyer.
Speaker 3: I.
Speaker 2: Torres. I heard they.
Speaker 1: Argument.
Speaker 2: Mr. President.
Speaker 0: All right. I'm secretary. Please. Cause voting in those results.
Speaker 2: 12 hours.
Speaker 0: 12 hours. Council Bill 914 has passed. Councilwoman CdeBaca, will you please put Council Bill 776 on the floor?

Speaker 0: 12 hours. Council Bill 914 has passed. Councilwoman CdeBaca, will you please put Council Bill 776 on the floor?
Speaker 3: I move that council bill seven seven, six be placed upon final consideration and do pass.
Speaker 0: It's. Same for technology to catch up. It has been moved and seconded. The courtesy public hearing for Council seven seven, six is open. Do we have a staff report for this one this evening?
Speaker 2: I think we have.
Speaker 0: Jason coming up, going to give us a quick, quick overview before we jump into our speakers.
Speaker 5: I think this is the most talked about vacation in the history of city council, so I'm sure you're all aware. Jason Clare of Denver Public Works. I just give you a little rundown that it's 6000 square feet at 2099 chestnut that an applicant requested that the property be vacated.
Speaker 5: It did not meet a utility need or a mobility need for the city in county of Denver. So the application was granted and we are here today to hear from those the applicant and those who live in the neighborhood and happy to answer any questions, if you have any.
Speaker 0: Thank you, sir. I think at 9:00 at night, nobody's going to complain about that. That length of staff report here. All right. So we do have seven people who are signed up to speak. I'm going to call the first five if you'll come up to this front bench, Steve Ferris, Jim Johnson, George Pazienza, Taber Sweet and Margaret
Speaker 0: Combs. If you can come up to the front seat and Steve Ferris, you're up first.
Speaker 1: Good evening. I'm Steve Farris and I'm representing the applicant. As we get into what's happened since we talked to you last week. I just wanted to give a quick overview that we as the applicant, the landowner next to the site are very proud of the work Mortenson has put into this project.
Speaker 1: They've really reached out and addressed the neighborhood concerns, and they did that because of your input and your concerns. And I think you'll like kind of what they're presenting and what's been done to date. I think this could be a model for future right away vacations, since there has been some serious concerns raised with all vacations.
Speaker 1: But because we're here only to talk about a vacation of land and not a project. I want to make a few observation. Many of you have questioned the state law around vacations, and there's a few observations that I wanted to make about that.
Speaker 1: One, you know, one thing we have to think about is that if this was just a vacation and there was no project and a few neighbors hadn't come up to object to the project, would you be treating this vacation the same way?
Speaker 1: And it's just I know some people think saying yes and some people know, but it's it's a question to think about because most vacations do come in completely separate from a project. Second, I want to note that, you know, right away, vacation requests do get refused by public works.
Speaker 1: I worked on one in Councilwoman Sandoval's district about a year ago that got shot down. I'm still perplexed why public works wouldn't allow it to proceed, but that does happen and you do not see this those situations. So I think in that context, it's good to remember public works does apply some evaluation and measures of these things
Speaker 1: . Finally, I wanted to note that we requested some information from public works about the total amount of vacations and dedications in the last few years. We found this data since 20 and this was provided by Public Works since 2014.
Speaker 1: 15.9 acres have been vacated, of which 9.5 acres were subject to a reservation or 6% of the total. The average size of that vacation was 6000 square feet. By the way, this vacation is actually 5074 square feet. For what it's worth now and the dedication side, the land that's been given free of charge from development.
Speaker 1: This is since 2015, so one year less. The city has acquired 26.1 acres at no charge. So my point here is to bring up that right away is always fluctuating in the city based on demand and needs in certain situations, and this is just another one in that whole scheme.
Speaker 1: So in some I just want, you know, that these circumstances do exist and this is simultaneously a typical right away vacation and yet it's a unique one. And I think because of your input, it's become a success story, which I'll let Mortensen and others.
Speaker 0: I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you very much. Next up, Jim Johnson.
Speaker 8: Good evening, Mr. President and council members. My name is Jim Johnson. I am here on behalf of the developer, Mortensen. To talk a little bit about what's happened since first reading and the our efforts to reach an agreement with the community.
Speaker 8: So since first reading, we put together a draft agreement excuse me, and we circulated that to the camp, to the community members, and we met with them on this past Wednesday to discuss the agreement and what they wanted to see in it.
Speaker 8: We had some serious concerns and we heard those concerns and we incorporated, I think, all of their requests into a revised document. But what we're dealing with now is actually an issue that that Councilwoman Sandoval raised at the first reading, and that is enforceability.
Speaker 8: And the issue she raised, I think, is that the city doesn't have the ability to enforce these. So I approached the city attorney's office and asked if the city would be willing to be a signatory to the agreement so that they can enforce that.
Speaker 8: And that was rejected soundly. The second thing that that I've done is I put in the agreement third party beneficiary status so that the city actually could enforce the obligations of the developer without being a party to the agreement.
Speaker 8: So since the city is not a party to or won't be a party to the agreement, I expect we intend to leave those provisions in there. But more importantly, actually is an enforceability on the other side. We're dealing with a registered neighborhood organization which actually has not been set up and established by the Colorado secretary of state's
Speaker 8: office. So it's not actually an entity like, for instance, the Cherry Creek Neighborhood North Association is a is a nonprofit corporation and can sign a document and bind the entity itself. And we don't have an entity on the other side.
Speaker 8: So I think one of the things you'll hear from actually a representative from Mortenson here in my client later this evening is that we'd like a little bit more time to actually assist the community in forming that entity and finalizing this agreement.
Speaker 8: So thank you very much.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next up, Jorge Pazienza.
Speaker 4: Hello. My name's George Pazienza. I'm the. You're in two roles. One is the Union Station. Ah, no president. One as the inker 29 brownstones h0 a president. So I'll split my comments as the ah no president. The neighborhood's sediment is obviously divided.
Speaker 4: Residents are supporting the vacation request. They're willing to give up the open space for a nice development. The residents that are opposing the vacation request are willing to risk what will happen to the dirt lot if we don't approve it.
Speaker 4: And they but they really don't want to give up the open space. The Arnaud's approach to this was to ask the highways to provide input on the objections and support from the community. This was somewhat successful. The Orono board did vote yesterday and by a 3 to 2 majority voted to support the vacation request.
Speaker 4: The hard data. In the spirit of transparency, the hard data that that was collected during this process did not outweigh the board's summary decision. The data showed that there were, as of this morning, 52 responses objecting from people that were hard data and six are supporting the vacation.
Speaker 4: Now, they were. Councilman CdeBaca His office provided some numbers this afternoon. She got another 24 objecting and seven supporting. So there's still a large number of the community that does not support this vacation request as a and I can answer questions about that later.
Speaker 4: The Inca 29 brownstones is is the president of that organization. There's 29 homes there. Our board officially objects to this. Then 79% of our owners object. The main issue there is access in the open space. The reason that we're bringing this up here and what our point is, is that those in CA 29 brownstone.
Speaker 1: Owners are 17 of the.
Speaker 4: Of the 20 adjacent landowners that the city defined as part of the process to create objections. So we have almost all of the adjacent landowners as defined by the city. And I want to bring up that there are guidelines.
Speaker 4: The only guidelines that are posted or available for evaluating this are state a number of issues in addition to it being available from a transportation viewpoint. Those issues are one of them is the adjacent landowners must agree those words and they don't they're limited or no impacts to the communities access services and enjoyment that has been that
Speaker 4: is we we don't agree with that this is not this is not an alley.
Speaker 0: I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you. Next up is Taber Sweatt.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman.
Speaker 5: So my name is TAVR, unlike the tobacco. Ah, that Councilman.
Speaker 0: Flynn was.
Speaker 10: Referring to earlier.
Speaker 5: So we're clear. I want to give everyone a little bit of background. So I started out my career as a land planner, landscape.
Speaker 10: Architect and urban designer.
Speaker 5: And when I look for opportunity and I look for sites to build on, I look for gaps in the urban fabric. And so that's what drew us to the site originally. I have trained, studied in Italy, studied in Denmark, Copenhagen.
Speaker 5: And you fill the urban fabric. And we feel like we have done just that here. I think some of you know, but I'd like to bring it up that this this site actually is is heavily encumbered by a stormwater line right down the middle of it.
Speaker 5: And so we have reached agreement. The public works. Public works has determined that none of the objections had technical merit that they received and that this storm line. I bring it up because not.
Speaker 10: Only does it greatly impact whatever a market value assessment might be for this property, but anything that you put on this property is subject to be removed and not replaced. So if public.
Speaker 5: Works has to come in and replace the storm line or service it, they restore the ground to level condition and they pay for it, period. And so there's a lot of risk that we were taking on to to do this, these enhancements that we're proposing.
Speaker 10: Another thing that I want to touch base on is that in our.
Speaker 5: In our discussions with the neighborhood, there's been a lot of concern and I've heard it here in council last week about future transportation, future transportation modes. And, you know, part of our proposal here is that we would actually create an easement for some of that right of way that would be vacated and donate it and grant it
Speaker 5: back to the city. So bicycle scooter racks, bicycles, scooter racks, parking, whatever need be. But we're more than happy to to accommodate that. As Steve said, it's a 5000 square foot 5074.
Speaker 1: Square foot, right of way. Our plan is to heavily.
Speaker 5: Enhance 3700 square feet of that with the remaining sorry, 37 square feet of heavily enhanced pedestrian improvements that could be selected and designed by the neighborhood. In total, we're proposing.
Speaker 0: To improve 7100.
Speaker 5: Square feet of right away. I want to bring it up because I think it's relevant. The hotel rooms that would go over this right of way. There's about 62 keys that we would be able to fit.
Speaker 1: Over the right of way. And I know this is a discussion about right away, but the taxable value on those 62 keys.
Speaker 5: Is roughly $1,000,000 a year. If the hotel is stabilized, so a $3 million overall project tax availability, and if we reduce the available land, we would we would reduce the.
Speaker 10: Taxes available are coming to the.
Speaker 1: City by about $1,000,000. So.
Speaker 5: More importantly, though, I want to ask everyone to do the right thing. You've asked us to come to an agreement with the city. We've worked very hard with two of the three main.
Speaker 10: Active board members.
Speaker 5: I feel like that we have made tremendous grounds in getting an agreement in place and I want to see this get built with community input and I want to see this happen with neighborhood support and feedback.
Speaker 10: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next up, Margaret de Combs.
Speaker 3: Hi. My name is Margaret Dickens.
Speaker 6: I am here on behalf of ordinary people who take transit. I'm a multi-modal transit advocate. I specifically look at transit as it relates to human rights issues, disability and systemic racism, sexism, etc., etc.. I'm encouraging.
Speaker 3: You to vote.
Speaker 6: No on the vacation based on its technical merits because the parcel adjacent to 2099 Chestnut is already serving as a multi-modal transit hub, and it's necessary for current and.
Speaker 3: Future transit. There are no other.
Speaker 6: Areas in the neighborhood currently where transit needs can be met. For anyone who hasn't been in the neighborhood.
Speaker 3: It is packed and most of the.
Speaker 6: Streets do not go through to anywhere. So there are lots of trips that are under 1.2 miles, which it turns out is when people will forego car trips. Right. So this is why we've seen this rise in popularity among scooters.
Speaker 3: Bikes, ride sharing, all these sorts of activities. And right now, that plot adjacent to.
Speaker 6: Chestnut Place caters to those activities, and market based transit modes will use the space according to function. Right now in that neighborhood, bars and shops are at the intersection of 29th and Chestnut. That's where that plot of land is.
Speaker 6: And so that serves as the place for wagon walkers, joggers, people walking, other animals, anything that's wide. The sidewalks in that neighborhood.
Speaker 3: Are fairly narrow. There's sort of a standard.
Speaker 6: If you block them, they're blocked. I mean, access is done. And, you know, we've talked a little bit about future use. I know in the Land Use Transportation Committee, you talked about, well, where we're going to need it for the future or not.
Speaker 6: And the reality is probably right now that neighborhood is brand new and.
Speaker 12: There's a ton.
Speaker 6: Of people who are needing to get into town, into downtown. So things like expanding the 17th, 18th commuter bus line, that's the only place in that neighborhood you could turn a bus around or put a bus station that doesn't have to.
Speaker 3: Go all the way through.
Speaker 6: And I'd like to point out that although technically this neighborhood meets ADA requirements from a functional standpoint, anything that is removed from that corner quadrant ends up blocking sidewalks, other places. And like I've said, the sidewalks are not wide.
Speaker 6: They're tree lined for anyone who has been down there. So if it's if a scooter or bike is parked adjacent to one of those trees, it blocks the sidewalk and it's not accessible. I know that I can't walk through that neighborhood with my dog frequently because then the areas during high.
Speaker 3: Peak.
Speaker 9: Hours are blocked.
Speaker 6: Luckily, during most of the day they aren't blocked right now. But you can be sure that these really high use periods are going to be, I'm sorry.
Speaker 0: Your time is up.
Speaker 2: Sure.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. All right. Our last two are Oscar Hernandez and Bernard DeWitt. If you want to come on up. And Oscar Hernandez, you're.
Speaker 10: Hi. Good evening Council and thank you for taking your time to listen to us. So I live, I'm sorry to say, Oscar Hernandez I live on 29/16 Street. So just down the street from where this development will be done, I'm here to speak in favor of it.
Speaker 10: I think as has been said before, we really need more time to work with the developers. We've come a long way. They've had several meetings with us. We've come a long way from what they originally presented to where we are now.
Speaker 10: A lot of things that, for example, are no is actually not officially incorporated. So it's something that we also need to build as a community to just get that together and be able to actually work on the final agreement.
Speaker 10: There are a lot of points. I agree that that is one of the last open spaces that we have in the neighborhood. But at the same time, if we vacate this road to the hotel, they were actually going to incorporate that and make it a more valuable space for the community and the hotel guests in general.
Speaker 10: Right now, I think a lot of the opposition that we've we've felt from the neighborhood has been in the concept that a lot of people just feel like if we don't vacate, they're not going to build anything. And that is not really the case.
Speaker 10: We really know that that is a very valuable property. It's very close to Union Station, so we know that one way or the other something will get built there and at least with them we have the opportunity to work with them and really come together and find something that'll be valuable for both of us.
Speaker 10: I think the last point that I really like about the if we give them the row is that the.
Speaker 8: Entryway will actually face where the rest of the businesses are in.
Speaker 4: The current neighborhood.
Speaker 10: If we do it the other way around, least based on the designs that we've seen, the entryway to the hotel will actually face a parking lot and it won't really feel like it's part of that corner in the community there.
Speaker 10: Plus, the current traffic design system, if the vacated row is provided, actually makes the traffic flow a lot easier. Without that, all the traffic will have to come in and out of the same way as opposed to looping through with the vacant design.
Speaker 10: So thank you very much.
Speaker 0: Thank you.
Speaker 10: All right. So one last point. Thank you, Taber. We do have a neighborhood meeting set for October 16th to talk about the next steps to really incorporate our and get on the bylaws officially designate a board and move forward.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next up, Bernard to it.
Speaker 5: He's gone.
Speaker 0: Oh. All right. That concludes our speakers. Are there any questions from members of council? Councilman Hines?
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You have public works. Come forward, please. Jason Miller of Denver Public Works. Hi. Thank you. Thank you for coming. Mr. Hernandez, who just testified, he mentioned that something will if if we choose not to vacate, that something will be built on this property.
Speaker 5: Question for you. As I understand it, the vacation can only be granted to an adjacent property owner and there's only one adjacent property owner. Is that other than the city, is that correct? That is correct. And I guess I asked two questions.
Speaker 5: So there's only one adjacent property owner, correct? That is correct. And you can only vacate two adjacent property owners? That is correct. Okay. So if we say no to this vacation, then this property or this. Sorry, this. 5000 or 6000 square foot, roughly, would just stay there as it is.
Speaker 5: That is correct. Okay. Do you are you familiar with the ADA, the pedestrian access in that area? I mean, not entirely. I do know that for that is under consideration when we talk about mobility. When we look at a whether we're going to be able to vacate something or not.
Speaker 5: That's why it was it was part of the bigger picture of, you know, whether it was needed for ADA issues or was it needed for mobility issues like bikes or anything else. So that that was all taken into consideration when it went through the process at Denver Public Works.
Speaker 5: That's why they still came up with this, the understanding that it was okay to vacate the 29 nine chestnut because it didn't meet any of those concerns. Okay. I mean, that's obviously a very busy area of town. Absolutely.
Speaker 5: And it was developed. I mean, there would also probably be another way where we would have to have sidewalks around there again and everything else, which means a dedication would probably have to come in form one way or another to make that capable.
Speaker 5: Okay. Good information. And, you know, obviously, I. Care a bit about it? Absolutely. Let's see the. Apologize. I guess it's getting late, and I can't read my own handwriting. That's. That's it for now. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Kennedy.
Speaker 6: Q Mr. President, one quick legal question. I was trying to look up, trying to find the state statute, but I'm sure someone is faster than me. Thank you. This question that was raised by one of the speakers about adjacent landowners, I think some people think of the word adjacent, like nearby, but I'm guessing the law is more
Speaker 6: specific. So when it says in the law that it has to be with the agreement of adjacent landowners, what does that mean versus what our prior speaker thought it might mean?
Speaker 5: For the record, Burton played assistant city attorney.
Speaker 10: With municipal operations. Are you? Yeah, I guess I'm a little confused by the question because we heard about we had an agreement with.
Speaker 6: So Mr. Pazienza. And he said that you have to have the agreement of adjacent landowners, according to the to the statute. Yeah. And he counted all of the buildings that were in the, you know, across the street as adjacent buildings and said this cannot he implied or the question was that this can't be granted because it violates
Speaker 6: the statute. So I need you to walk through what the word adjacent means in the statute compared to how a layperson might use it, like you or I, if we're just chatting.
Speaker 10: Yeah. A little bit. A little background. Well, Mr. Pansy, Enzo's referring to is not state statute.
Speaker 6: Okay?
Speaker 10: Where he's referring to is a document that's on the public works website. And he's referring to a section that says important issues that must be considered before submitting an application. They're not criteria. They're not standards. They're just factors to be considered before an applicant submits an application for a vacation.
Speaker 6: Got it.
Speaker 10: State statute requires. State statutes has codified that when a road or a right of way is vacated, the right to the title to that right away vests in abutting property owners, i.e..
Speaker 1: Touching, touching.
Speaker 6: Touching, touching the site in question. All right. Thank you. Correct. I think that probably clarifies it. So so the idea that someone else is touching the property, like where the hotel might be, the land that the hotel developer already owns or someone who's, you know, just across the street, the next property over doesn't count in the state
Speaker 6: statute.
Speaker 10: In state statute. That's correct.
Speaker 6: And then can you just clarify, is the language being quoted, as does the language in the public works sites say must agree? Is that a quote that's accurate? Uh.
Speaker 10: Yeah. That is a quote. The property owners are sorry. Yeah, property owners must agree. And then it goes on to say to all adjacent property owners, agree to vacate the right of way. If not, expect the process to be much longer, more expensive, and ultimately may not be approved.
Speaker 6: Okay. So the context is a little different. It doesn't say must agree or vacation will be denied.
Speaker 10: Exactly.
Speaker 6: Because it's the context of the quote matters.
Speaker 1: Okay.
Speaker 10: And it's not a criteria. Again, the.
Speaker 6: Big picture, I know what we're telling the public and what we're not telling. The sentence doesn't end Ms.. Degree or the vacation. I just want to clarify. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman Sandoval.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I have a few questions, Jason from Public Works. So according to your the documentation online for an Ali vacation, it says it was updated in March of 2017. Can you tell me the last time the fee structure for Alli vacations or right away vacations was updated from public works?
Speaker 5: Offhand, I don't know the exact date, but I think it was 2012. And we only do the fee structure to cover the cost of processing the request.
Speaker 3: Okay. And then according to the Public Works website, when it talks about vacating right away, it says some things to think about before proceeding with the vacation request. On bullet point number four, it says there must be limited or no impacts on the surrounding community or public at large.
Speaker 3: Right of way in the city is generally part of a roadway, network or grid that provides benefits to the public at large, including not limited to efficient access to various destinations. Removing a piece of that grid from public use could have various negative impacts for the community's access, service and enjoyment.
Speaker 3: The city will consider these factors before approving any request to vacate the right of way. So that's on your website, huh? And my question for you is these negative impacts. So I'm just going to ask you a question since 2012, and I know you haven't been here for 22 since.
Speaker 3: So I'll get you slack and your fee structure with updated in 2003. Okay. That's a you know, it wasn't updated in 2012. There have been numerous negative impacts when it comes to vacating right of way in northwest Denver.
Speaker 3: I'll just speak for myself and I think this has a negative impact for this community. How come that is on your Web site and how come that is not part of your PDF documentation online when it when you somebody would go to vacate and out alley right away.
Speaker 3: I feel like that that sentence should also be part of that PDF.
Speaker 5: Understandably so. So Councilman Sandoval, Jason Glare of the Public Works our process at Denver Public Works. We try to keep it very in the utility aspect of it and the mobility aspect of that right away when it gets into the other stuff that we're we're giving this information to them that they need to consider because this has
Speaker 5: to come before city council. And city council will make a political question on this. This is not what Denver Public says when we actually want to vacate or two to allow a vacation to go forward. This is a question that will be asked you.
Speaker 5: And we are prepping them on the website, which it says important issues you must consider before submitting an application, including several things, because there are things that they're going to have to work through with the community and with city council.
Speaker 3: All right. Thank you. So can I have one of the property owners come up? Yes. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Yes. Hi.
Speaker 3: Can you tell me when this property was purchased?
Speaker 1: Actually, I cannot I understand it was part of a trade in the early 2000s, but I don't know the exact date. It involved negotiations with the predecessor of the Central Park Ballet Development.
Speaker 3: So you you're representing the owner and you have no idea when they purchased this real estate property?
Speaker 1: I don't. There's an engineer for the owner. We could ask him here. He might know.
Speaker 4: Jim Fitzmaurice with engineering representing the applicant. Our understanding is pretty much what Steve said, that it was involved in a trade for some property that somebody else near to Platte Valley wanted to buy, and this was a property that they traded as part of that transaction.
Speaker 4: I believe that she's owned it at least 15 or 20 years, but not exactly how long for sure.
Speaker 3: Okay. So the reason I'm asking is when this came to ludi, a lot of times what I'll do is I'll go to the the property record. Right. And there's no in Denver you can find the chain of title.
Speaker 3: This property has no chain in title. And so I brought that up during the Ludi committee and I asked act during the Ludi Committee if somebody could come back and ask that group, get that question to me about when this property was bought or when this LLC 2999 chestnut was formed.
Speaker 3: And I still don't have the answers. So I find that concerning that. I asked that months ago about ludi and here we are tonight. We've postponed this and I still don't have an answer. So just in the future, if we could have those questions answered, it's really helpful when we're up here making those decisions.
Speaker 1: Yeah, apologies. I wasn't at that meeting.
Speaker 4: We did do a survey on it and I think the LLC is 1917. Chestnut, I believe, is the ownership name. I can look at my ALTA survey in a moment. I've got it with me.
Speaker 3: I can take down the Denver Property Records. It's 29, 20, 2099 Chestnut.
Speaker 4: I believe that's the address of the property. I think the LLC is a different number.
Speaker 3: It says Owner Chestnut Place, LLC.
Speaker 10: Okay, let me.
Speaker 4: Look at my survey. We did I know we did a survey and had a title for it.
Speaker 10: I may be able to give you a little more information.
Speaker 4: I didn't know that was a question until just now.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 10: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Cashman. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 4: Either Jason or the city attorney.
Speaker 1: So I'm interested. Drove by the site again today.
Speaker 4: And there is a B cycle station on there. Were the mayors committed to 125 miles of bike lanes in the city in the next five years. To me, it's a clear form of transportation. I'm just wondering how we get to where that.
Speaker 0: Doesn't meet the definition of a transportation.
Speaker 4: Usage.
Speaker 5: When it comes to a bike or bike ramp that's movable and we can put it in the area to still fill the needs. And we don't consider that as the, you know, the stake that says this is used for transportation.
Speaker 5: So, for example, if we had a bike rack that was there that we could also put into another part of the neighborhood that would be useful for the surrounding neighborhood in the same effect. Then we don't require that as the the the reason why we would deny a vacation.
Speaker 4: Okay. Thank you. Sure you have one.
Speaker 10: Dad, son. I wanted to ask.
Speaker 5: If you'd step up to the microphone, please. Again? Taber Suite with Mortenson Development as part of our.
Speaker 1: Site development plan process as well. On this.
Speaker 10: The representative from B cycle also was involved on relocating the bicycle rack and it was part of.
Speaker 5: I would say, the requirement for a site development plan. So they were including that B cycle station to be there.
Speaker 1: In perpetuity, which we obviously agreed to. Right. Thank you. While you're while you're up, you're going to have to stand up again. I don't know how good. All right. Don't know how good it feels. Good. So as as your current design is set up.
Speaker 4: You want to put some pillars.
Speaker 8: On the.
Speaker 1: Area you would like vacated. And what, another 62 rooms would overhang that area? Correct. Okay. How moving past that out into open space, how much space would would that plan leave uncovered? I don't have the exact number on uncovered.
Speaker 5: What we show is kind of the overall heavily enhanced plan, if you will, is about 3700 square feet. I off the top of my head, I don't know what of that is covered. My guess is going to be it's about 800 square feet maybe.
Speaker 4: So. Whatever you do.
Speaker 1: On that parcel, all that would be left uncovered for the community is.
Speaker 4: 800 square feet.
Speaker 1: No, no.
Speaker 5: No, no. The part left uncovered is probably closer to 33,000 square feet.
Speaker 1: On the immediate corner.
Speaker 0: On the very.
Speaker 10: Hard corner itself.
Speaker 5: Part of our discussions with the neighborhood has also been the realignment of the curb on Chestnut and to push that curb out a bit, which I think there are some diagrams in the in the package we sent you.
Speaker 5: So all in all, it's a and I believe it's about 3100 square feet on the actual corner itself.
Speaker 1: Right. Yeah.
Speaker 0: And the the the.
Speaker 4: Roadway the elevated.
Speaker 0: Roadway there.
Speaker 5: The 20th Street.
Speaker 1: Right? Yep. That runs right by there. How far will your building be set.
Speaker 8: Back away from that roadway?
Speaker 5: We're going to be about 15 feet set off the face of that road.
Speaker 1: Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman CdeBaca.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. Councilman Cashman asked my big question, but I do want to ask some more questions of Mr. Pazienza. I'm curious about. So I'm hearing for the first time about this new R.A. that's not officially an R.A. with less people than required by your typical R.A. process, and then hearing from multiple associates or representatives of
Speaker 3: the developer and the project, but not specifically from any of the residents who were of the 71% as close to as Jason as possible. Do you are you aware of any of those those surrounding 71% that flipped out?
Speaker 3: Who can you tell me a little bit about what's been going on?
Speaker 4: So the there is part of the process that the Department of Public Works goes through whenever they ask for objections is they have a category of they call them adjacent landowners within 200 feet. And you know, the difference between a budding and adjacent, what I've been told is abiding means that has to touch an adjacent means there
Speaker 4: can be a river or right away or something between that those two properties. But at any rate, they sent out special letters to 21 people. Now, one of them was a double and it's part of our organization. I'm also one of the adjacent landowners.
Speaker 4: I am also representing the board is part of one of the adjacent landowners. None of those, Jason. Well, to say.
Speaker 1: They haven't changed their mind is not correct. More of them object now than.
Speaker 4: Objected when this process started. All of the objections have increased.
Speaker 1: There have been more. We've gotten more.
Speaker 4: Letters in terms of support through our organization. We've asked to be copied and tell us what's going on.
Speaker 1: But we, you know.
Speaker 4: The adjacent landowners, I mean, we read that document. It's got a name and got a number. It's, you know, words have meaning. That's I don't I don't know. I guess in law, words are supposed to have meanings. They have all these libraries and books.
Speaker 4: And that's you know, you saw what the word said. And we objected. And we object because we think that it creates utility value, transportation, as we've talked about. And it also, you know, is part of that enjoyment. But, you know, if those words on that document that has a number by the city don't really mean anything, I
Speaker 4: don't you know, that's our fault. I guess we shouldn't have.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Quick question for Mr. Gallardo. So you you say that this bicycle does biking fits as part of our multimodal transportation and our transportation goals. It's currently being used for a bicycles station. I'm curious about how the city decides to make these accommodations with developers.
Speaker 3: We made the effort to figure out how to relocate of bicycles station for a developer. What what triggers that process?
Speaker 5: Um, let me see if I understand your question. Jason Miller of Denver Public Works. You're asking what triggers the. What process for us to remove something?
Speaker 3: What triggers our attempts to accommodate a developer? It feels like the immediate checkboxes that you would go through for technical merit would be is this currently used as a for transit purposes checkbox? Yes. You don't go further than that.
Speaker 3: What triggered CPD to go further to figure out how to relocate this bicycle station?
Speaker 5: So. So DPW in the. So what happens is there was an agreement that was done that I didn't speak to before with the developer and b cycle to continue to have it in the area it was going to be permitted through them on their I think it's on private property that it will be on.
Speaker 5: And so when that agreement was made, it's no longer an issue for that to be part of the process of saying they were going to lose that aspect. That aspect was going to stay after the development occurred. So they weren't going to actually lose the cycle there.
Speaker 5: And when it comes to bike ramps and stuff like that, those are movable. And we're able to see in different areas of how we can make it work for the entire community.
Speaker 3: So so in that.
Speaker 5: Area, in all vacations, just sorry to interrupt. All vacations are not developer's vacations. Vacations happen from private homeowners as well and everything else. We make those same accommodations across the board.
Speaker 3: So with all of the constraints that were mentioned tonight about that area of town, the smaller sidewalks, the limited walk space, the limited space for docking scooters and bikes, where are we thinking? Why would we give up space like that?
Speaker 5: So I think that there is a bigger question you're asking there that we do not ask that public works. And when it comes to a specific piece of land, that's something that I think that is the reason why it goes through this process so that you guys can have this conversation and discuss the whether we should vacate
Speaker 5: it or not. But for for us, the Denver public works. We look at a right away and say, does it have a utility need or a mobility need? And if it doesn't, if the adjacent or the budding property owner requests for a for us to vacate it so that they may develop it or do something else with
Speaker 5: it, then we we consider it under those guidelines only the rest of those questions are questions outside of our scope, because there's it's a hard question to answer. We've been here for three nights because it's a hard question to answer, and I get it.
Speaker 5: But that's not something that would be part of our process on that. That's, I think, more in the hands of city council and the neighborhood and whoever is asking for the vacation.
Speaker 3: Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate you passing the ball to us. But this could have simply been taken care of by checking off that first box because it is used as a current transportation access or use. So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Hernan.
Speaker 10: Hey, Mr. President. I was the one who asked for this first delay, and I might be regretting that decision. Now, I say that. And just so my question first, public works is, Jason, is there any expectation that public works that this vacation is denied, that public works will do any improvements on this parcel?
Speaker 5: At this time. We in our current system and our current guidelines that guide us for right away. No. Okay. But that. Many things have happened. But no, I.
Speaker 10: Understand you can be encouraged to do so. Okay. Oscar. You said this at the very end. What is happening on the 17th? So Oscar announces again on the 16th. We're going to have a general meeting for the neighborhood to incorporate the actual R.A. At the moment, the R.A. has been working unofficially.
Speaker 10: There is no actual incorporation. We have no bylaws. We don't have any terms for the board of directors or anything like that. So as part of this process, we found that out. Several members of the community found this out.
Speaker 10: And so that's why we were asking for more time, so that we can get to that. And whether we vacate or not, at least we get the opportunity to have that discussion as an official board internally for our community and which are now just so the Union Station north of the Union Station, Arno.
Speaker 10: So this so that I will use the word. Arno recognizing that you're not official yet. So you have been the ones that have been in conversations with the adjacent property owner from the very beginning of when the first delay was made, these conversations.
Speaker 10: So I believe Georges, as the has has started that process, I only got involved a little bit later, but then through that process is when we found out that it wasn't officially incorporated. Got it. So, George, a question for you.
Speaker 10: So you have you have been a part of these conversations so you can verify there is another meeting on the 16th or 17th that you incorporate as Nana.
Speaker 4: I was not aware personally of a meeting.
Speaker 10: On the 16th or 17th.
Speaker 4: I have been part of this process since Tabor.
Speaker 10: We met in January.
Speaker 4: So it's been going on for quite a long time.
Speaker 10: Okay. So, Steve, I'm just going to pull different people up. We we published this last Monday, and so there was a meeting on the following Wednesday last week. What happened at that meeting?
Speaker 1: Steve Erskine. Well, there was a presentation by Taber and his team to the neighbors again, and they talked about they gave him a draft agreement early on, I think it was Tuesday, and that was discussed in more detail on Wednesday.
Speaker 1: And there was essentially a understanding that their general idea of the agreement was, okay, I want to paraphrase here, but they wanted more details to be resolved on the Good Neighbor Agreement.
Speaker 10: I understand. And so there is we have two people say there is there is a meeting, again, that you were going to be a part of. I'm assuming that there's going to be another meeting in October because we're not in October yet.
Speaker 10: Yes. Okay. So in essence, the conversation is still continuing.
Speaker 1: That's a fair summary. I would ask Taber if he wants to embellish that further, because they're the actual people working with the neighbors on the agreement. And I represent the landowner and they're the developer working on the agreement.
Speaker 10: Okay. I'm good. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, gentlemen. I'm going to skip to some people who I don't think have been up yet. Councilwoman Torres.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two questions probably for Jason. Public Works. What was the conversation in public works that no future need for utility or transportation would be required in this neighborhood? And I'm just figuring that has seen pretty rapid growth and expansion that you wouldn't need that land.
Speaker 9: Was that part of the conversation? Or is it only are we currently using it for that use?
Speaker 5: No, it's a future. Need is is part of the conversation. We do look at the property that is in question and determine whether is currently being used for mobility or if it had a future need for mobility based off of our current understanding of which direction we're moving.
Speaker 5: Obviously, that can always change and these aren't perfect guidelines, but that is the guideline we use. Yes.
Speaker 9: And then if it does not get vacated, what can the city do on it?
Speaker 5: Right now, nothing. There's no pathway or process for us to do something different than leave it as right away. So I can only speak of to the what kind of process we have in place right now. It would stay right away.
Speaker 9: So how is a B cycle installation? It was only through the funds of B cycle itself that actually installed the station there.
Speaker 5: Yes, they were probably permitted in a process. I'm not totally sure on how that process ended up. There you.
Speaker 9: Okay. So it can't look any different than it currently looks right now.
Speaker 0: Correct. Okay.
Speaker 9: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Flint.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to look at a couple of different areas as quickly and concise as possible, maybe for the attorney. And to follow up on Councilwoman Conchas question. Now, this the right of way is not technically city owned real estate.
Speaker 4: It's a dedication. Of all of a public passages that basically were dedicated right away as.
Speaker 10: Martin played the city attorney, city attorney's office. Yes, the right of way is not like your typical real estate.
Speaker 4: It's not like a city park.
Speaker 10: Exactly. When the city has titled two Right of Way, it has a limited interest. And that interest is that the city holds title to the right of way in trust for the benefit of the public for right away use.
Speaker 10: Right.
Speaker 4: So essentially George Hoyt and William Robinson in 1871 platted this area. And what they did was they laid out the streets and this is part of the intersection of what was Hertford. Now Chestnut Division Street and Stanton Avenue, which is now 29th Street.
Speaker 4: And that is how it came to be part of the street system of the city. And it was taken from the adjacent parcels. This gets the councilwoman each his line of questioning. He was parceled out half and half from the adjacent parcels.
Speaker 4: So if this corner is to be vacated, it can only be returned to the property from which it was parceled out in the first place.
Speaker 10: Yes. And that's what's codified in the vacation statute.
Speaker 4: And that is that is why we don't charge my market rate or anything like that. We were given this as a dedication. And if we don't use it anymore, our obligation is to give it back. But we charge a processing fee of $600.
Speaker 10: Yes. In Colorado, courts have held that the city doesn't hold the right of way for profit.
Speaker 4: Right. Okay. Okay. The let me ask one of the owner representatives. I don't know if it'll be Steve or Taber, but on what was shown to us includes what was shown to us today. And as part of this agreement that you're negotiating with the neighborhood is you would build over part of the existing right of way.
Speaker 4: You have to leave the big swath in the center because there's a six foot storm drain buried underneath it that you can't build over. And and part of the building would then be canceled, not cantilevered, but would be supported around the perimeter, but not all of it.
Speaker 4: About 3000 some odd feet would be delighted. And I'm just making sure I understand this correctly. And again, maybe one of you could stand at the microphone. So this looks like a question. And it is and it is a question.
Speaker 4: What I saw in that in that document was that you would then rededicate part of what is being vacated would be rededicated back as part of the public right of way. In other words, you would extend the curb to narrow and channel traffic more efficiently or effectively or safely and slowly, we hope correct to come around and
Speaker 4: then enter through a portico, share sort of arrangement on at the hotel that would use part of this right of way. Correct. Okay. I just want to make sure I understand. And now let me ask either Oscar or George, because this is confusing to me.
Speaker 4: And that's the last the last thing is rather Union Station North is not registered with the secretary of State, but I don't I have RINO's and my council district that are registered to the Secretary of State and I see that you are registered.
Speaker 4: Union Station North is a registered neighborhood organization in Denver and Mr. Pazienza is listed as the contact here. So I'm kind of confused with why. Explain to me why this meeting is coming to involve a filing with the Secretary of State.
Speaker 4: Why that's necessary. Because you are in Reno right now.
Speaker 10: Oscar. And and this again. Thank you. Yeah. So what we came to find was that, yes, it is registered. We found it on the website as well. George is listed as the president. However, it is not officially incorporated.
Speaker 10: So when it comes to making the agreement with the developers on what we decide if it is vacated, we don't have any legal standing.
Speaker 4: Or you don't have legal standing to sign a document. Right. That's the crux of it. Okay, I get it. But what we have here is we have the makings of an agreement with the neighborhood. Correct?
Speaker 10: We are working with.
Speaker 0: Yes, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Hines.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Gallardo, I chat with you again for a second. I think I heard someone say this earlier. I just wanted to make sure I heard it right. The hotel rooms. If this were to be approved and developed as is conceptually designed, there's an elevated roadway.
Speaker 5: Is that right? No elevated roadway. No elevated roadway that I know of. Next to it. Oh, you mean. Oh, yes. You mean the train? Oh, there's elevated train tracks. You guys can't speak to that more.
Speaker 0: Please. If you're in the audience. The councilman call on who he would like to answer.
Speaker 5: I could. I could definitely get somebody for you to answer that question better than. Okay. Yes, I apologize. Okay. Let me let me just. Is there a bus stop on this vacation? No. There's currently no. Yes, there's no bus stop there.
Speaker 5: Google Maps shows that there's a bus stop on that. No. No. Okay. No, Buster. And I think to your comment earlier, I think basically what you were saying is that public works is purview is more narrow than city council's purview in this situation.
Speaker 5: Okay. Let's see. Mr. Pazienza, may I? Ask a couple of questions about so. The Arno. How many? Approximately how many members are do you have in your Arno?
Speaker 4: Well, the no, we think there's about 3500 people in the neighborhood.
Speaker 5: Okay. And in one of your meetings you found, can you go back over the number of HANO members that voted for and against? It's like 130, 170, something like that.
Speaker 4: No, no, no. There were a total, if you include what was passed on to Councilwoman CdeBaca is 76, objected and 13 supported.
Speaker 5: And the R.A. board also took a vote. Is that correct this morning? Is it?
Speaker 4: Yes. The board made three members of the board voted.
Speaker 5: That I thought five members of the board voted in favor.
Speaker 1: Two against the two members did not.
Speaker 4: They were not available and abstained. So three members voted for the for the to support the vacation.
Speaker 5: So there are three members on board members and support and no one opposed and two abstained.
Speaker 1: Correct. Well two weren't.
Speaker 4: You know, that weren't there.
Speaker 5: Okay, that's fine. I don't want to dig too much into your business. I guess I'm a little confused as to why if you surveyed the members and it was overwhelmingly negative, why the board would then vote in support, I guess.
Speaker 5: Does the board have information that the that the members don't have?
Speaker 1: Not to my knowledge, no.
Speaker 5: Okay. Um. Thank you. From the developer. A developer representative. Would you answer the same question? It does. So there was a board vote today which seemed to be counter to the vast majority of the of the members. So does does the board have information?
Speaker 5: Did the board have the information this morning that the members did not have? I can't speak to this precise information that a board member may or may not have had. But I can tell you that the other members that Mr. Pazienza were referring to had been at all the meetings, and Mr. Pazienza has not.
Speaker 5: And those other board members have been fully engaged in trying to negotiate the developer agreement.
Speaker 10: And Mr. Pazienza has not.
Speaker 5: Okay. Um. So I don't know if that gave them more insight, I guess is my point, councilman. Okay. Fair. Fair enough. And. You're Mr. Sweet, correct? Correct. TAYLOR But the good tipper. Okay. The earlier in your when you came up before, you'd mentioned that you had come to an agreement with two of the three board members.
Speaker 5: I'm guessing that those two were voted yes today. Correct. This morning. Okay. And also I again, I think I caught this, but I wanted to make sure you mention that there is that you talked about how the developer is taking a lot of risk because you may have to return.
Speaker 5: The VA vacation back to its existing. You know, you might have to do because of this five foot storm drain you might have to. Rip it back out. Correct. And put it all back. Yep. Okay. Thank you. That's all I have.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. All right. Seeing no other questions, the public hearing for Council Bill 776 is closed and we're going to move on to comments by members of council. Councilman said Abarca.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. Again, I would like to thank all of you who spoke tonight and encouraged my colleagues to vote no on this vacation. I stress last week some of the manipulation that was happening. And we have we have received a steady flow of people who continue to be opposed to this project and are refusing, as
Speaker 3: Mr. Pazienza said, to attend these meetings where they feel that they are being coerced to support it when they've already expressed their discontent and disapproval. We've heard tonight that this is very valuable land according to what square feet of land are going is going for here in Denver right now.
Speaker 3: This is worth over $2 million of land. We recognize that it is currently being used for a transportation use and could potentially be used for other different transportation uses and transportation uses that are in alignment with our mobility goals.
Speaker 3: And so I don't think that it makes sense when 71% of the surrounding neighbors oppose this to to approve it. There is technical merit. And I believe that it should remain a right of way. And we should vote no on vote no on it.
Speaker 3: So thank you all.
Speaker 0: Thank you, councilman.
Speaker 10: Councilman Herndon name is president. I am. I'm sitting here with a struggle because the initial reason for the delay was for the to the different parties to come together and have this conversation. I feel as if we're not there yet because there is a meeting that's going to happen in a few weeks so that the Register neighborhood
Speaker 10: organization can be official and sign a document that would take the two parties. It would be an agreement. So it seems that we though. Though I'm I'm past comments so I'm not going to comment. I don't know if that's going to be able to happen in one meeting.
Speaker 10: So I am I am torn on that. But I will just say, it seems as if you have an option of allowing the community to have a voice and a parcel of land and one option which the conversations that have moved forward.
Speaker 10: But it also seems as the vacation is denied, then they're the property owner. We'll just move forward with the development on their own parcel and the neighborhood won't have a voice in that conversation. And then the reason what was important to me, because I'm curious if DPW would develop this parcel in any capacity and the answer is
Speaker 10: no. And if the right away is going through, the community is going to get this integrated into the a part of their community. So I will be interested in seeing other colleagues speak up how they feel about a potential delay so that we can get past this October meeting that the Union Station, you are official.
Speaker 10: You have the capacity to sign a document and you can speak for the you can say, hey, we have a we have an ironclad agreement that if you have to move forward in this capacity, that to me seems as if that would be the end of a smart way to move forward.
Speaker 10: But I will certainly be interested in hearing how some of my other colleagues feel. Thank, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. I I'm in some ways the same situation as my colleague, Councilman Herndon. It's the Chris effect, maybe. But part of what factors into my confusion or my quandary, I suppose, is, you know, Councilman Sandoval asked for information in Luti and didn't get it.
Speaker 5: And I asked for it again tonight and and didn't get it. So that makes it a little tougher for me to say, Oh, we've got all our questions answered. Another quandary that I have is the Erno Ford says yes, but the Arno members say no.
Speaker 5: And that's confusing to me as well. And it's difficult for me to reconcile that to Mr. Sweet's comment about, well, we've come to an agreement with two of the three board members. We did what you want. Actually, I remember last week saying that I wanted a good neighbor agreement and I wanted there to be some document commemorating
Speaker 5: it, commemorating the relationship between, you know, what the neighbors wanted and. And I don't see that. And I recognize that there's also some work on a developer agreement which requires a legal entity. So I recognize that that's also a challenge.
Speaker 5: But that's, again, the quandary that we're in. Another quandary is we've already delayed this a month and. You know, whatever tonight is like today's the 30th and we delayed it until the 30th and and we deleted a month.
Speaker 5: And so I'd be okay with another extension. I'm a little frustrated that we're. Already delaying, and we're delaying more. I just don't want to. Yeah, it's it's just a little disheartening that we knew that we were going to meet today, and we're still not.
Speaker 5: I don't think we're quite there yet. Um, I also unfortunately had a meeting with one of my state contacts that had to get rescheduled when I was going to ask about the state statute. And that's totally my, that's, that's not anything that would happen here.
Speaker 5: But, but I wanted to learn a little bit more about the vacation process and the thought process as well. So I would likely be a no just because there are a lot of a lot of moving parts that just I can't reconcile right now.
Speaker 5: And and so I'm just sharing my thoughts. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: Thank, Mr. President. In response to Councilman Herndon, I'd be willing to entertain another delay to allow this to occur, because it seems to me we had asked for not just a good neighbor agreement, which is unenforceable, but a development agreement which is enforceable.
Speaker 4: But that requires this meeting to take place. If that meeting takes place and the neighborhood organizers and they say no, then we can vote no. And if they organize and they sign the agreement and say yes, then we can say yes.
Speaker 4: And but I think to just outright kill it tonight before we get a chance for this to happen, which is what we wanted to happen, is is not what we want to do right now. So I would support another delay.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman Flynn, Councilman Herndon, you back up?
Speaker 10: Okay. Well, we can just see how this goes. I so my understanding is there's a meeting on the second week of October, the week of the 13th. If we delayed for three weeks, I would go until October 21st.
Speaker 10: But I think maybe the prudent thing would possibly give them an additional week. And so I before I say this, you have heard the questions that council has asked, and there really is no reason to not have council and council members ask this.
Speaker 10: But so I will I will make this and we will see how the will of the body goes. Mr. President, I move that final consideration of Council Bill 1977 six to be postponed to Monday, October 28th.
Speaker 0: A check in with our Madam Secretary and see if the councilman has followed the protocol needed to make that motion.
Speaker 2: Absolutely.
Speaker 0: And let's see it on our screens and we're going a little off script here. So if someone want to verbally second that or.
Speaker 7: I didn't show up.
Speaker 0: Oh, there we are. Thank you. So that motion has been moved and seconded. Are there comments on the motion to delay, Councilman CdeBaca?
Speaker 3: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. I think that we've delayed once we've had this discussion last week, and we allowed it to move forward from last week to give them the time to go through the typical process anyone else would go through.
Speaker 3: I think we've heard community's voice and we're not listening to communities voice. There are several documents uploaded in your files of people who are protesting this. You're not talking to the same people. We're talking to an a three member faction of this group that has.
Speaker 9: Somehow.
Speaker 3: Commandeered this process. And we're waiting for these three people to establish, establish themselves, to sign for an entire neighborhood that has already spoken up that we are choosing to ignore. And so I don't think that this motion is appropriate.
Speaker 3: I think that this is a slap in the face to their participation. If this were a rezoning, this is beyond the 20% that would be required to protest a rezoning.
Speaker 9: And so we're we're really.
Speaker 3: Changing the rules and moving the target here with our threshold for community participation. And we're deciding which community.
Speaker 9: Members we want to listen to.
Speaker 3: And I don't think it's appropriate to listen to.
Speaker 9: We only saw one.
Speaker 3: Representative here who said he is making a decision for a group that the other representative who opposes.
Speaker 9: Is the president up. So it's.
Speaker 3: Very confusing.
Speaker 9: It is really.
Speaker 3: A testament to what I mentioned last week about the manipulation involved in this. Process. And I don't think it's appropriate. I think we've given enough time. It's run its course. It's followed the typical process. And I think we should be voting on this tonight, not delaying it any more.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. All right. Seeing no other comments, we are voting on the delay. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 2: See tobacco? No. Flint. I Gillmor. I heard it. I hate cashmere. I can eat. I. ORTEGA Hi.
Speaker 3: Sandoval No.
Speaker 2: Sawyer No. Torres No. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: No. Madam Secretary, please close the voting and note the results.
Speaker 2: Six eyes, five knees.
Speaker 0: Are we missing somebody? That's only 11.
Speaker 2: Ortega.
Speaker 10: Okay, you.
Speaker 7: Just let me vote right now. I was looking.
Speaker 2: For a good design. Seven eyes. Five knees.
Speaker 0: Seven eyes. Five nays. Uh, council bill seven, seven, six has been delayed. So I think that anything else we need to do, do now and then. All right. Seeing no other business before this body, this meeting is adjourned.