Meeting: DenverCityCouncil_09232019
Date: 2019-09-23

---

Speaker 0: If there are no objections from members of council, we will not take a recess. All right, Councilwoman Torres, will you please vote council bill 913 on the floor.
Speaker 3: And move that council bill 913 be placed upon final consideration and do pass.
Speaker 0: It has been moved and seconded. Councilwoman Sandoval, your motion to postpone?
Speaker 2: Yes. I move that final consideration of Council Bill 19 does 0913 with its public hearing be postponed to Tuesday, November 12th, 2019.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Are there any comments by members of Council or Councilwoman Sandoval?
Speaker 2: Yes, thank you. So this is a bill for a non owner historic designation in Council District one on 46th and Tennyson. And the owner and the applicant have found a compromise to come to a 60 day pause to find a buyer for the property.
Speaker 2: And I'd like to honor the work of the neighborhood and ask that this ask my colleagues to please vote in favor of this postponement so that the neighborhood continued to seek other alternatives for this site.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. With that, Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 2: Sandoval. I black. See tobacco, I swear.
Speaker 0: All right.
Speaker 7: Herndon, I.
Speaker 6: Hi. Hi.
Speaker 2: Cashman Clinic. Ortega. Hi. Sawyer, I.
Speaker 3: Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Hi. I'm secretary. Please voting in US Results.
Speaker 3: 1212.
Speaker 0: Outcomes. Well, 913 with its public hearing has been postponed to Tuesday, November 12th. We have do have an executive session tonight. So I will move that council enter into an executive session session for the purpose of receiving legal advice.

Speaker 0: Outcomes. Well, 913 with its public hearing has been postponed to Tuesday, November 12th. We have do have an executive session tonight. So I will move that council enter into an executive session session for the purpose of receiving legal advice.
Speaker 0: If I can get a session moved and seconded. Per Section 2-34a of the Denver Revised Municipal Code, a two thirds affirmative vote is required to enter into executive session. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 2: Black CdeBaca I.
Speaker 5: Flinched. I heard it. I hands.
Speaker 6: High.
Speaker 3: Cashman.
Speaker 2: Kenny Ortega. Sandoval, I. Sawyer, I.
Speaker 3: Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Hi, Madam Secretary. Please. Because voting announced results.
Speaker 5: 12.
Speaker 0: Hours, 12 eyes council will now enter into executive session. When we return, then we will return to adjourn the meeting. Thank you. You know.
Speaker 3: Bank. And then their bank actually said, Yeah, the check is good and the person lost money that way. So that's a good warning. But the other the other one that I want to just play at the end of the refund from the company is that you may be told you're virus protection software.
Speaker 3: The company contract is being canceled. You are going to get a refund on this. And what they the caller will then see is that they have accidentally transferred too much into your account and will say, oh, no, I'm going to lose my job.
Speaker 3: But, you know, would you help me out here and we'll ask you to go get the balance so they'll say they've transferred more. So, for instance, if if you're getting to $200 or so, they'll say, well, actually, you know, I've I've transferred $10,000.
Speaker 3: Could you pay me 9800 back so that I don't lose my job? And again, that's you know, that's one that can easily in an urgent situation can can easily fox people.
Speaker 8: In Nigeria.
Speaker 3: You know the Nigerian prince I'm hoping he'll come over here some day. I'd like to meet him. The funniest thing was I did some research into that and I discovered that that's a really that's like a really old scam because I guess some of these have been circulating for hundreds of years.
Speaker 3: Right. And they had some letters about a Spanish prince. So a long time ago, it was a Spanish prince who was imprisoned. And you could help help help him regain his fortune by contributing to his his release. So, yeah, we'd all like to meet him, sir.
Speaker 4: Yes. I want to share with the community in terms of coming from a real estate perspective. If you know of anyone who's buying a home, you're they're getting scammed by wire fraud in terms of what they need to bring the closing.
Speaker 4: And you have scammers out there that has that will capture the home buyers email and send them an email saying that the title company is instructing you to wire your closing funds to this account. And it's not true.
Speaker 4: So I don't know if you've been seeing that, but in real estate, it's been that's one of the highest levels of scams right now is to wire fraud for a closing settlement. And so I encourage if you know of anybody who's look who's buying a house and at closing, call the title company themselves.
Speaker 4: They will tell you how much they need to bring to closing. And since I'm in real estate, I just got to say this.
Speaker 3: No, please do. I think these are great tips for.
Speaker 4: Working with senior homeowners that the scammers you will get mail. You get mail at your house and it looks like it's coming from your mortgage company, the graphics, the logo and what's been happening. They're seeing they know that you're paying a mortgage and they were saying, now your loan has been transferred.
Speaker 4: You pay us at this address. Please don't do that. Call your mortgage company to verify if your.
Speaker 9: Loan has been.
Speaker 4: Transferred.
Speaker 7: So it's it's incredible. It's a lot going on right now.
Speaker 3: There really is. And thank thank you. Great tips as well. You know, I don't know how much time we've got left. And I I apologize to folks who are watching on channel that I know we've been skipping around with lots of people adding to the discussion.
Speaker 3: But I think it is really important and I really appreciate it because I think it's only by hearing from other members of our own community that we really know what's happening in our neighborhood, that we really know what's happening in our city, and that we we work to best protect ourselves.
Speaker 3: So I'm I'm just going to finish up here by just just letting letting, you know, I guess, finally what what we can do for you. So we do have folks who we've I put some resources on the table here and we have folks who actually answered the phone.
Speaker 3: Real people, not a phone tree. Isn't that amazing? So we have real folks who are there to deal with your problems every day during the week. And if you have concerns that something's a fraud, then you can check it out with them.
Speaker 3: If you're sure that you've been defrauded, you can call them. Obviously, you can also call local law enforcement. Maybe sometimes you want to talk to somebody who's in the DA's office who's a fraud specialist. So we're there to do that sort of work for you.
Speaker 3: Also, we can sometimes get rapid solutions to situations. So I can I can promise that happens in every case. But I will tell you that when we look in, when we start looking into a situation, it's amazing to me that that will sometimes resolve things very swiftly because they know that we're looking at the situation.
Speaker 3: So, you know, we are super motivated to meet with the community. So for any of you who also are members of other groups and you would like to invite us to come work with your group and to come talk to your group.
Speaker 3: We love to do that. We really would love to do that as you can. You might not be able to see, but I think I've only got through about a quarter of my presentation this morning. But I think it's really more important, as I said, that we we talk we talk about things.
Speaker 3: But there is a lot more, I guess, where this came from. And it's sad, right? It's sad that there's so many different scams that we are we're needing to take more than than this time simply to get through the most frequent ones for people.
Speaker 3: So just once again, thank you to Councilwoman Gilmore. Thank you to all of you for coming out. I hope it's been something that's been useful to you and it's been a delight to be here. Thanks. Well, thank you, Jane.
Speaker 3: We really appreciate you being here. And Mr. Paul. Yes, I think you have a microphone right right there.
Speaker 4: I don't need my. Okay. I just like.
Speaker 7: Your office for putting this on quite as.
Speaker 3: Well. Oh, I. I think they still want you to use the microphone here so we can make sure that and that's always okay to repeat.
Speaker 4: I just want to thank you, Councilwoman and Gilmore, of you and for putting this on with Mrs. and White Vermont below 2020 because this is needed more of this is needed because it's all I mean you know, it's amazing.
Speaker 4: I was just listening this lady here talk about, you know, the game this man pulled and I asked, is he alive yet? She said the lady didn't have a gun. Well.
Speaker 3: Well, well, we definitely thank you, Mr. Poole, and thank you for everybody being here this morning. And I would be remiss if I did not sincerely thank my Bello 2020 and Montebello Walks and the Golden Age Club for getting you here and getting the word out.
Speaker 3: Mark Bello 2020, is a registered neighborhood organization and very active in the neighborhood. And I know that there's other groups out there as well that we just need to get this info out to the broader community. And then the Colorado Trust also provided our breakfast and refreshments this morning.
Speaker 3: And Montebello Walk is an organization that also is very active in the neighborhood and they get seniors out and keep you active. And so at the end of the day, when we start talking about what our next steps are, I what I got out of Jane's presentation is you need to verify if someone calls you and nothing
Speaker 3: is ever that urgent. And it's okay to take those folks information down and hang up the phone, don't give them any information and turn around and call the district attorney's office. Call our council office, call the non-emergency police number and start asking questions.
Speaker 3: And so verify, verify, verify. And this is the first of a series of Montebello Speaks speakers bureaus that we're going to be facilitating in the neighborhood. And so look for other topics that we're going to talk about. If you have ideas of topics that you would like to have an expert come in and share information and we
Speaker 3: want to keep this a conversation. So always back and forth. Because what you're asking today and the answers that are being recorded, this is going to go out on Channel eight and get out to the broader community. And so I thank you for being the leaders that you are in the my fellow community and District 11, and
Speaker 3: we will keep this going. So thank you.
Speaker 7: From the District 11 Council Office and Montebello Leadership Cabinet present. The second edition of Montebello Speaks in partnership with the Office of Financial Empowerment and the Denver Office on Aging.
Speaker 3: Good evening. I'm Stacey Gilmore, and I'm the councilwoman who represents District 11. And I'm honored to welcome you tonight to a Montebello Speaks Speakers Bureau event. We have been working for the last three years with community members in the Montebello neighborhood to talk about the effects of gentrification, involuntary displacement, what we really need to have in our
Speaker 3: neighborhoods to make sure that our seniors can age in place, that you have the financial planning and resources to make sure that you're able to transfer your asset on to your children so that we're looking at generational wealth building as well.
Speaker 3: And so thank you so much for being here tonight. And at our second event, we started these recorded events to make sure that we were getting the information out far and wide throughout the community. We know that sometimes you can't come to a neighborhood meeting and so we wanted to have these available on Channel eight.
Speaker 3: We're going to post them on YouTube and we would like you to share them with your friends and family and other folks as well, so that they've got this information. And so tonight, we're going to be talking about financial consumer protection.
Speaker 3: There's a lot of folks out there that are maybe not on the up and up. And so we want to make sure that you have the tools to make good decisions. And I would like to first thank the Montebello Leadership Cabinet.
Speaker 3: It's a group of registered neighborhood organization leaders, community leaders who have been so committed to this work. And when we sat down and started talking about our changing neighborhood, the top things that came up were affordable housing, allowing our seniors to age in place, but then financial empowerment and financial literacy.
Speaker 3: And so through your voice and your advocacy, we're able to do these events. I also want to thank the Office of Financial Empowerment and the Office on Aging. And we also have Perla Geisler, who is here tonight. And she brought out the Denver Connex mobile van, which is a brand new resource that's in partnership with the city
Speaker 3: and county of Denver and Mayor Hancock's office to make sure that you have the resources right in your own neighborhood. And so it's a mobile van, and it's for older adults. It provides resources and real time advice to you.
Speaker 3: And so hopefully we'll get a chance to, after this taping, go out and check out that resource as well. With the Montebello Leadership Cabinet. We are always trying to grow the membership because there are so many different topics and so many opportunities for people to learn more that we want to make sure that you get involved as
Speaker 3: well. And so if you are watching this on television, if you're here tonight, please get involved with Montebello Leadership Cabinet. You can contact me or any of my staff members. And with that, we're going to go ahead and get started.
Speaker 3: The presentation is Financial Consumer Protection and is presented by the Denver Office of Financial Empowerment. And the two gentlemen that are going to be with us here tonight are Alvin Tafoya. He's the program manager. And Ron O'Hara, the Consumer Financial Protection coordinator, again for the Office of Financial Empowerment.
Speaker 3: Here you go, Alvin.
Speaker 9: Thank you. How's everybody doing this evening? Doing good. I just want to go through a quick exercise just to kind of get a feel of the room and just to really engage you. How many of you receive some kind of banking credit score or loan training or class when you were in high school?
Speaker 9: Okay. Got one here. How about while you were in college? How many of you learned these about these things through your parents? Do they systematically teach you all that when you're grown up? We got a few more hands up.
Speaker 9: So basically the Office of Financial Empowerment really wants to take all the guesswork out of that. It shouldn't be an organic process in which you grow up. You start learning about banking and you start learning about checking. You start learning about how important your credit score is and how that could impact you financially.
Speaker 9: So. You know. So that's really what we're engaged in and what we do. We serve families, we serve individuals. We actually serve small businesses as well. We want to empower them to be able to make sound financial decisions so that they can become successful.
Speaker 9: And so with that, I'm going to go ahead and move forward with the presentation and give you a little bit of background about how we started and where we came from. So Mayor Michael Hancock supported us back in 2013, along with our council members.
Speaker 9: City council members supported us and they have been supporting us ever since. Basically what we have been able to do since then is grow our program from what it was to what it is today. Today we're serving about nine.
Speaker 9: We have nine coaching centers throughout the city and county of Denver. You can walk in or call them and set up an individual appointment. They'll provide you coaching sessions and teach you about all the banking type of products and how to get your arms around your finances.
Speaker 9: Some of the things that we do or we'll help people better understand their credit, will help them to reduce their debt. We'll also provide them small loans if they need to. And we're also working with other financial institutions, large banks and small credit unions to develop banking products that help support low to moderate income families.
Speaker 9: And so we're really working on helping individuals at any place in their life span to move forward and kind of discuss what you talked about, get to a place where you can do some wealth development and transfer wealth onto your family so that they can kind of go through this too gen process and move that forward.
Speaker 9: Like I said, Mary Hancock supported us back in 2013 along with city council. Ultimately, you know, our job is to work with residents economic mobility, stabilize families, individuals and small businesses. We forgot that in this PowerPoint, but I wanted to throw that out there.
Speaker 9: Develop solutions through programs, policies and practices to stabilize families and individuals. And so one of the things we worked on was Prop 111 to help reduce the amount that a lender's payday loan centers can charge an individual for a payday loan.
Speaker 9: And so today, because that law was passed, they can only charge up to 36%. And we still think that's a little bit high. But we're working on an alternative product so that we can work with individuals, which is ultimately the goal, to get them into banking products that they're eligible for.
Speaker 9: So you guys are probably the first to hear this in the community. We used to be the Office of Financial Empowerment, but now we're the Office of Financial Empowerment and Protection. And the reason why we moved to protection is because Ron's going to come up in a little bit and discuss the consumer fraud and protection division that
Speaker 9: we we're putting together right now. So you guys have actually kind of learned about it the first time we met with you. We're continuing to move that forward and we're going to roll that out here pretty soon. And so a little bit about the program, the ecosystem here, the five pillars of financial stability.

Speaker 0: And Councilman Flynn has called out Council Bill 921. Did I miss anything? All right. Under final considerations are insiders when called out and pending no items called out. So, Madam Secretary, will you please put the first item on our screens?
Speaker 0: And Councilwoman Suarez, will you please put council bill seven, seven, six on the floor?
Speaker 3: I move that council bill 776 be ordered published.
Speaker 0: Thank you. It has been moved and seconded comments by members of Council Councilwoman CdeBaca.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. This is on first introduction today, but it was actually postponed back a month ago. And so I'm urging my colleagues to vote no on this vacation. A little bit of background. Is that the fee?
Speaker 2: There's a fee for 6000 square feet of land, which is 1600 dollars. The plan for this location is an eight story hotel. You all might have gotten notice of the issue in the media. I believe one of the news outlets reported that public works gets between two and three dozens of requests like this per year.
Speaker 2: Some are tiny, others are thousands of square feet. So according to state law, if the right of way is not being used for transportation or other factors, an adjacent property owner can request that the city vacates the area.
Speaker 2: The Department of Public Works oversees these requests, charging.
Speaker 3: 1600 dollars in fees.
Speaker 2: For review. Public Works pulled all 21 adjacent property owners asking if they objected to the vacation request. 71% objected and 42 total objects objections were submitted from the neighborhood. This will increase chestnut place the developers land by 50%, increasing buildable square footage from 12144 to 18094 square feet.
Speaker 2: While DPW states that none of the protests have technical merit, I believe that the protests, in fact, do have technical merit. It is currently being used for transportation as there is a bike docking station located there. I believe as we meet our modern transportation goals and get more people out of cars, transportation uses will be much different
Speaker 2: than they have been in the past, and they will have to accommodate our different uses of transportation, including walking, biking and scooters. That area specifically is the only public space where bikes and scooters can be parked without blocking access for people who are mobility impaired.
Speaker 2: As we grapple with the scooter issue, I don't think it would be responsible for us to relinquish an area that can become a docking area for modern transportation uses. And therefore I urge you all to vote no on this developer giveaway of 6000 square feet for less than it costs to live in 800 square feet apartments for
Speaker 2: a month. I urge you all to think of our climate and transportation goals and have the prudence and foresight to hold on.
Speaker 3: To land.
Speaker 2: For our current and future uses of transportation. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Herndon.
Speaker 7: Hey. Thank you, Mr. President. I have the honor of chairing the Land Use Transportation and Infrastructure Committee, where this right of way vacation came to committee about six weeks ago or maybe two months ago. And I was the one that requested the for the four week delay as the applicant approached me and said, hearing all the concerns
Speaker 7: about the right of way vacation, we wanted to reach out to the community. And so I actually would like to have the applicant come forward just to hear the progress or the applicant representative, excuse me, to speak to what has happened over the course of the four weeks, just so that council could be made aware of how
Speaker 7: the conversations have moved forward. And while he's coming forward, I would also like to invite my colleagues. We'll be having a conversation on the right of way in general. I believe that's going to come the last week in October so that council members can share their concerns and hear the reasons that we do move forward in the
Speaker 7: direction we do with right away. But if you want to come on forward, say introduce yourself. And if you could just speak to what has happened over the past four weeks during the course of this postponement we had earlier.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Councilman Herndon. My name is Steve Ferris, and since we you last consider this, we have met with the neighbors three times with with this input. We have developed a plan for this area that we sent you in a video earlier today.
Speaker 7: This takes a bear and patch of land with a bike docking and moves it to a location that works for the neighborhood and creates an attractive place in this with this right of way land. This will be locked up in a neighborhood agreement this Wednesday.
Speaker 7: In a meeting, we're meeting again with the neighbors. We believe we have support from the neighbors and the neighborhood VPP from their neighborhood organization. Mark, homework is here tonight. If to speak to that, if you want him to.
Speaker 7: So really, our ask is simple tonight. Don't kill this tonight. Give us time to make this neighborhood proud. We can and will improve the right of way with the neighborhood input. And just a little time from you. Thank you.
Speaker 7: And Steve, just so I make sure you've had you said over the course of the past four weeks, you've had three meetings with the neighbors and you have scheduled another meeting on a Wednesday. And what is this? What is the purpose of that meeting?
Speaker 7: We are presenting a good neighbor agreement that will commit to the plan that we have sent around and shared with them to date, which involves improving the right of way in the intersection of Chestnut and 29th to such an extent that it opens up public space and allows people to mingle and enjoy that area and keeps attractive
Speaker 7: and busy. Okay. Thank you, Mark. Colleague, I say that. Could you come forward with. You came and spoke during the public time, but I want to afford you the opportunity. If you could just introduce yourself and say your connection to this parcel right away.
Speaker 7: Sure. My name is Mark Hall. I'm a board member of Union Station North and a resident. I've been there six years. Okay. So you've been a part of these conversations over the past four weeks with the applicant? I have been involved.
Speaker 7: Okay. So would you say that the applicant is interested in hearing the concerns of the community and and whether we agree on the right away vacation or not? There have been over the past four weeks that you have there have been conversations and there's a meeting on Wednesday to discuss a possible good neighbor agreement.
Speaker 7: Yes, that's my understanding. There are two more meetings scheduled. Okay. And you said this during public comment, but I want to make it a part of the record. It's something that you would wish council would allow to happen.
Speaker 7: I think for the benefit of the residents in our neighborhood, I would recommend more time for them to figure out what it is that they truly think. We've had a lot of people flip and it's been impactful. Okay.
Speaker 7: Thank you. Sure. And I would just say this to my colleague, I'm not here to speak to the spirit of the ride away. Whether it's appropriate or not. However, four weeks ago, we agreed to allow more time to be done.
Speaker 7: And this is billed as on first reading. So the question tonight is, should we publish the bill, not do we vote on the merits of allowing the ride away to happen or not? So if we were to vote down the Bill of the day, what was the point of allowing the four week delay?
Speaker 7: Because next week, next Monday, it's going to come right back to this body. We can look to the applicant. We can look to the the board and say, do you have an agreement? And if there's an agreement, we can have a conversation about that.
Speaker 7: And if there's not, we can have a conversation about that as well. But to not allow this to move forward so that a scheduled meeting for Wednesday, to have a possible good neighbor agreement, which would tell me that the community is in support of it, I think would be unfortunate to not allow that to happen.
Speaker 7: So I'm not speaking on the merit of the ride away, but I want to speak to the spirit of allowing an applicant and the community to have a conversation. And I would hope we would allow the bill to be published so that can continue and then discuss the merits a week from today.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Ms.. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Herndon. Councilman Hines.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. Is there anyone here tonight who is opposed to the 2999 chestnut vacation? So we do have at least one person. I don't necessarily want to hear from you right now. I do want to the applicant's representative, would you come back for a moment?
Speaker 6: Thank you. And I apologize. I didn't. I didn't get your name. I'm terrible with names.
Speaker 7: Steve Ferris.
Speaker 6: Of course. Which makes me even more embarrassed. But anyway. At any rate. So I'm assuming that in those meetings that you had with the neighbors, they were they weren't 100% in agreement or disagreement.
Speaker 7: That's correct.
Speaker 6: Is it would you say that you had a reasonable conversation, that there were people who were for and against and they were, you know, having a like a reasonable discussion in general sometimes. Yeah. I guess just answer that question.
Speaker 7: Yes. There was a lot of reasonable discussions. People felt strongly in some cases, other people volunteered right away to say, I'd like to retract my initial opposition. It was an ongoing back and forth.
Speaker 6: Is there more than one person who is opposed to the to the the vacation?
Speaker 7: Yes. I mean, we don't have exact counts, but we.
Speaker 6: You know, I guess. Yeah. And thank you. I guess the nature of my question or the line of question is if we allow this to continue, I think that there are some people who are expecting to come to speak, probably in favor, but also in opposition.
Speaker 6: And they were not expecting to come tonight to speak in opposition. They were expecting to come next week or, you know, the 30th. The 30th, which which is next week. So, at any rate, I think that I would agree with Councilwoman CdeBaca on her points.
Speaker 6: I would also say that I'm somewhat frustrated by state ordinance or state law excuse me, state statute. That kind of makes it more difficult, as I understand it, more difficult for us to make decisions. But I would be in favor of letting us hear this next week so that we can have more people opposed and, you know
Speaker 6: , voice their thoughts if they want to. So thank you for your time. Thank you. And thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Sawyer.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. Is there anyone here who can just explain a little bit about the state.
Speaker 8: Law and and what that does.
Speaker 2: To play into this just in a little bit more kind of clarification.
Speaker 1: On that if.
Speaker 0: We're looking for public works staff or legal staff.
Speaker 3: Congratulations, Jason, again.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 6: Hello. Jason Gallardo, Denver Public Works. Yeah. So state law kind of controls how we deal with dedications and vacations because it's it's kind of tricky. You don't want to require when a permit comes through for us to be able to require them to dedicate a right away to us and then turn around and sell it back to
Speaker 6: them for, you know, whatever market value.
Speaker 7: Would be for that square footage of.
Speaker 6: Land. So vacations come.
Speaker 9: In and we.
Speaker 6: Vacate it if we don't have a utility use to it or a mobility use to it. So we try to balance it's kind of a system to watch vacations on their own, doesn't do the whole system. Servicers, dedications and vacations eventually vacation.
Speaker 6: I mean, a dedication could be required to be vacated. And we don't charge they don't charge us for the land they're dedicating, nor do we charge them if there's no utility use or mobility use to it for us to vacate it.
Speaker 6: So that's kind of the process that the state laws hovering over us to make sure that cities don't try to make profit off of these type of agreements back and forth.
Speaker 2: So is there any.
Speaker 3: Kind of policy.
Speaker 2: Discussion around.
Speaker 3: Not being in this situation again in the future.
Speaker 1: Happening right now, or is.
Speaker 6: There? I think there there is. We're having internally write down. And I think that, you know, as Councilman Herndon stated, that we're going to have a more broader with city council as well. But I also want to make it clear that the dedication and vacations are just always going to be a part of this.
Speaker 6: You know, when we we we lean on developers who are developing an area to be able to make a sidewalk. And that's a good thing for the city. It's an asset that we get to use going forward. So it is complicated.
Speaker 6: And this particular vacation is about 6000 square feet, as Councilwoman CdeBaca stated. But it's also we get, you know, dedications that are just as big as well. You know, we've had dedications that have come through that have been upwards to 20,000 square feet.
Speaker 6: So it's it's kind of a we win in some areas in as you feel you're losing in an area right here. But the reality is is is this is how the entire system works so that we can continue to dedicate in and vacate.
Speaker 6: And like you said, we only do about a few dozen dedications, I mean, vacations at hubs every year, so.
Speaker 2: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. I find myself agreeing with Councilman Hines and with Councilwoman CdeBaca and and actually also with Jason in that I believe that we should give this due course and move it forward to publish it. But if there is no agreement next week, I will vote with Councilwoman CdeBaca to to kill it if there is
Speaker 4: an agreement that's acceptable to the neighborhood and it involves the transportation aspect, the in the video that was forwarded to us, we we saw the relocation of the cycle dock and in a public plaza in green space that I think we need to give it the chance to move forward.
Speaker 4: But just to expand on what Jason had to say, we require a subdivide ers when they plat land to convey to us for free the public rights of way. And so the principle in in a vacation is that we don't sell it back to them because we didn't buy it in the first place.
Speaker 4: And the 1600 dollars is basically the the the processing fee. I noticed that tonight we're also doing a dedication of a right of way on is it rain or Utica or. Xavier Xavier a down by a down by Lakewood Gulch.
Speaker 4: And and so I looked up the subdivision and that area has never been subdivided. So I have no idea how we had the right to pave it in the first place because it was never conveyed to us as right of way.
Speaker 4: But that that illustrates the give and take that Jason was talking about. But when this first came along and I saw that it was a 6000 foot vacation, my first thought was that's that's an awful big plot of land.
Speaker 4: And it reminded me of some of the Mid-Block Alley vacations that have occurred up in District one over the years that former Councilman Espinosa used to be so concerned about. We wanted to talk about it then and resolve it, and we did not.
Speaker 4: So now it's back on our plate and I'm glad we'll have the opportunity to do it again. But agreeing with Councilman Hines, I believe that we should move it forward to see if the neighbors and the property owner can agree.
Speaker 4: And if they do not, then I would agree with Councilwoman CdeBaca and kill it.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Flynn. Councilman CdeBaca, you back up?
Speaker 2: Yeah. Just wanted to thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to really highlight some of the calls that have come to us about the persuasion tactics in trying to flip that 70% that was opposed. I think that dragging this process on puts.
Speaker 2: The neighborhood through the undue persuasion tactics. And I would I will work really hard to make sure that they come and expose what has been.
Speaker 3: Going on throughout.
Speaker 2: This process. But I think that right now, if we know that on principle, giving away 6000 square feet of land when it is being used for a transportation use and it falls into the technical merit, it has technical merit.
Speaker 2: I think dragging it on is not necessary. But I understand where my colleagues are at. So thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to ask one of our city attorneys if you could just clarify if state law totally prohibits us from being able to, you know, extract anything from these parcels. In terms of, you know, market value of the land.
Speaker 3: I understand, you know, we ask developers to dedicate land that oftentimes is used for additional, you know, curb cuts or for sidewalks or whatever that, you know, oftentimes that's land they give to the city, if you will. But when we have a parcel and, you know, we have various types of of ways that some of these parcels
Speaker 3: come into our coffers, it's not all from, you know, landowners dedicating the land to the city. And we've had this issue with some of our alleys, for example, where in throughout northwest Denver, we've got a lot of carriage lots.
Speaker 3: And we saw one in the Jefferson Park neighborhood where that land was actually given to a developer that furthered the ability to demolish a historic property and add a lot more density to the area. So there's there's again, different ways we acquire or they come into our city coffers.
Speaker 3: But on these types of parcels, are there restrictions from the city being able to sell the land?
Speaker 7: For the record, Martin Plate, Assistant City Attorney, Minneapolis. The answer is yes, there is. The state statute deals with vacation, and the statute states that when a local government no longer needs right of way, that there is a process for relinquishing, if you will, or vacating that right of way.
Speaker 7: And it does not include the ability to sell the land.
Speaker 3: Do we know the reasoning behind that?
Speaker 7: I don't. But I know the vacation statutes that are around since the early 1900s, possibly before that.
Speaker 1: Okay.
Speaker 3: I saw state senator two weekends. I was in the audience and wanted to acknowledge her. Maybe this is something some of your colleagues would be willing to help us take a look at, please. Thank you for answering that question.
Speaker 3: I want to request that I'm in agreement, that I want to see if there is actually an agreement that's been worked out and if it has not. I'm not sure I would be willing to support this moving forward, but I want to request a public hearing.
Speaker 3: And it is not unusual for this body to have had public hearings on vacations in the past. So I want to request that when the bill comes back to us next week.
Speaker 0: Thank you, because I.
Speaker 3: Will support it moving forward for publication.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Ortega. And that is actually something I was going to point out. But should this move forward? No one has requested that and yet and it is not required. So thank you for getting that checked off because I know earlier there was some talk about work to come back, people coming to speak, and that does
Speaker 0: require someone to request it. So thank you. Councilman Hines, you back up.
Speaker 6: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Oh, louder now. I also wanted to acknowledge Senator Gonzalez. She is my state senator. And and one other thing that I want to do. I mean, just because she came in after I started speaking.
Speaker 6: The other thing that I would say is I think this might be interesting for us to ask our state legislators to review before we continue to grant vacation requests. Should there not be a compelling story next week that that that includes a good neighbor agreement and and strong agreement from the neighbors.
Speaker 6: So. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman Hines, Councilwoman Sandoval.
Speaker 2: Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to speak up because in northwest Denver, we've had many Ali vacations come through and we've had many good neighbor agreements come through. And the good neighbor agreement puts it on the owners of the neighborhood.
Speaker 2: And I just want you to know that we were here. I was here in 2015 as a council aide working for Councilman Espinosa. We had a Ali vacation come through. We took it through. We took it through this process.
Speaker 2: We had a good neighbor agreement come up. And I got a phone call last week that that good neighbor agreement is null and void. Nobody is enforcing it on the city site because the city is not part of the good neighbor agreement.
Speaker 2: So I just want to bring that to everyone's attention that as good of intentioned as these are, they are not enforceable by the city and county of Denver. And so for years here I am as the councilperson dealing with a good neighbor agreement on alley vacation in Julian.
Speaker 2: And so if you need more information on any of these, I have been working on these alley vacations since June of 2012 when I started as a council aide. One of my first assignments as a council aide was to go to mediation, get a good neighbor agreement for an alley vacation around the corner from the house I
Speaker 2: grew up on. So. And I've talked to Senator Rodriguez about looking at this on the state side and actually part partnering with Senator Rodriguez, because this needs to stop and this needs to actually be fixed at the state level.
Speaker 2: So look forward to that coming up. This is something that I've had a conversation with him about a couple weeks ago. So thank you all.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Sandoval. Councilman City barking back up now.
Speaker 8: That was earlier.
Speaker 0: One of those earlier on. All right. So seeing no one else. I'll just add that, you know, I've had some concerns about the technical merit of this. That from committee. I share a lot of what councilwoman said. Like I said earlier on that that being said, you know, I do I personally prefer when we take things through
Speaker 0: the process, order it published, give it time. And especially now with Councilman Ortega requesting a hearing to have a chance for us to to have democracy at work here and hear from people. So I would ten I think I'm going to lean towards supporting this to move forward.
Speaker 0: But I have serious concerns even if an agreement is reached on the technical merits of the future transportation use that I'm you know, I'm going to have to let sit, I think, well, we will this one carries over for a week for me personally.
Speaker 0: So with that, Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 2: See tobacco. No black eye.
Speaker 3: Flynn.
Speaker 4: All right.
Speaker 7: Herndon, I.
Speaker 6: Hines All right.
Speaker 2: Cashman Can each. Ortega. Sandoval, I.
Speaker 3: Sawyer, I. Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Madam Secretary, please. Because voting in the results.
Speaker 3: You live in is one.
Speaker 0: Name. 11 Eyes one day Council Bill 19 0776 has passed. Madam Secretary, if you please put the next item on our screens and Councilman BLOCK, go ahead with your comment on 914.

Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. All right. See no other comments. Madam Secretary, will you please put the next item on our screens? And, Councilman Flynn, you want to go ahead with your comments on 921?
Speaker 4: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. This is a bill that I think has the underlying purpose of prohibiting sales of tobacco products to persons under the age of 21, the raise the age from 18 to 21. And I think everybody up and down the dais, I don't want to I don't think I'm out of line saying that.
Speaker 4: I think it would pass here pretty easily when it came to committee. However, it had something that none of us had been briefed on or expected, and that was an entirely new policy area, which was to start. Putting distancing requirements between retailers from between retailers of 500 feet and from retailers to certain prohibited locations, including daycare establishments
Speaker 4: . I understand the reasoning behind putting a distancing requirement of 1000 feet from places where young people who are mobile and can go into stores and might be able to pass for 18 or 21. But a daycare center is not one of those sites.
Speaker 4: And daycare centers are things that we encourage more and more to be located in neighborhoods, and they can be licensed almost anywhere. You can find one coming in your neighborhood tomorrow. I hope I get some down in my district tomorrow if if I could encourage that.
Speaker 4: But this was an entirely new policy area we weren't prepared to to fully examine in the committee. So some of the members up here have I've put together an amendment and gotten support from some members here that would delete the distancing from daycare centers and then also delete the distancing between retailers, because the data show that was
Speaker 4: at 84% of all current licensees, 7-Eleven supermarkets, grocery stores, you know, little neighborhood markets that currently sell cigarets along with groceries and other things. 84% of them would be in violation of the distancing requirement, and they would be grandfathered, of course.
Speaker 4: But in the backup material we were sent, it was noted that, well, we want to do this because over time maybe some of them will forget and lapse and not apply, reapply every July for that license to preserve their grandfathering, and then they will have to stop selling cigarets.
Speaker 4: And while that's a laudable goal, the purpose of this ordinance was to prevent sales to people who are under 21. It wasn't to prevent sales to anyone at all from these locations. And so I think there needs to be a broader policy discussion on that aspect of it.
Speaker 4: But, Mr. President, I wanted to I had a lot of outreach today from the administration and from other backers of the amendment. And I decided that I will hold on to the amendment tonight and offer it next week if that's if that's the course that we decide to do.
Speaker 4: But I'll be talking with some of the agency folks over the next week and contacting my colleagues with the results. And and we'll see what happens next week at the is there a public hearing on this? Also, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: I'm looking at here, Madam Secretary. We do not have a public. Okay.
Speaker 4: We'll just we'll just have a call out then.
Speaker 0: Yet requested for this? No.
Speaker 4: I'm not requesting one.
Speaker 0: Okay.
Speaker 4: All right. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Shaping up to be an exciting week for those of you who want to tune in next week for our next episode. All right. Seeing no other comments. That concludes the items to be called out this evening.

Speaker 0: Name. 11 Eyes one day Council Bill 19 0776 has passed. Madam Secretary, if you please put the next item on our screens and Councilman BLOCK, go ahead with your comment on 914.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I'm commenting on the first reading of this bill because I won't be here next week for the public hearing. This is the landmark ordinance. I'm very supportive of the new ordinance and the efforts of the task force, and I'm very pleased at some of the changes, including simplifying the criteria, adding culture and allowing
Speaker 2: additional time for discussion and negotiation as part of the bill. Historic preservation is very important to me. I am a Denver native and I'm a historian. I have a master's degree in history, and I've seen a lot of our historic buildings tragically destroyed over the years.
Speaker 2: I have supported every owner initiated historic designation that's come to council as have 100% of the council. That said, I have always been concerned about owner opposed landmark designation efforts that impinge on private property rights council has been put in the very uncomfortable position of having to preside over some pretty awful public hearings when some owners were
Speaker 2: having to defend their property rights. Recently, Tom's Diner brought the issue to the forefront for a lot of residents. I've heard from hundreds of constituents and residents who were shocked to learn that Mr. Messina's plans for his property and his future could be undermined by strangers.
Speaker 2: I was disappointed that the task force did not recommend a higher bar for these types of hostile designations, putting the burden on council to strike the balance between property rights and the public benefit of designation. In these controversial owner opposed cases, I believe, along with some of my fellow council members and many residents, that there should be
Speaker 2: a higher bar and near consensus, not just a simple minority majority when an owner is in opposition. I know that truly historic structures should and will garner that near consensus support. Councilwoman Gilmore and I had hoped to amend this bill to require a supermajority of ten or nine votes to approve owner opposed designations.
Speaker 2: The amendment would have simply raise the bar when owners are not in support to ensure that the property very clearly meets or exceeds the criteria. Unfortunately, we don't have the votes tonight to amend it, but I do hope that our fellow council members will reach out to their constituents to gauge their feelings on the issue and that
Speaker 2: we can discuss this proposal in the future. It's also important to note that I have heard that there are some residents who feel strongly about the property rights issue and are considering a citizen initiated ballot measure that would require the city to compensate owners when their property is designated without their consent.
Speaker 2: This proposed ballot measure could have a chilling effect on future designations. In the meantime, I do hope that the ordinance will prove to be successful, resulting in more owner initiated designations and better outcomes for our neighborhoods. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Hood.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to say Tom Steiner was in Denver's perfect ten and still sorry. And the last I checked, at least, and that was one of the first things I started dealing with as a as a council person.
Speaker 6: I look forward to the conversation next week, and I look forward to learning more about the the stakeholder process that was, I think, a year in length that came up with the current for the current proposal that is contained in House Bill nine or excuse me, in City Council Bill 9142.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. All right. See no other comments. Madam Secretary, will you please put the next item on our screens? And, Councilman Flynn, you want to go ahead with your comments on 921?