Meeting: DenverCityCouncil_08262019
Date: 2019-08-26

---

Speaker 1: Tunis Lebanese Council 744 has passed. Councilman Hines, will you please put comfortable 745 on the floor?
Speaker 2: I would love to. It's somewhere I move. Bill 745 for adoption? Yes.
Speaker 1: One final consideration.
Speaker 2: Yes. I would love to place it on for final consideration and do pass.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Mr. President. It has been moved and seconded. The required public hearing for Council Bill 745 is open to me. We have the staff report.
Speaker 4: Well, good evening, everyone. I'm very pleased to be here. I get a chance to stand up for a while and I'm going to be giving you the staff report for Council Bill 745. My name is Andrew Johnston. I'm with the Department of Finance.
Speaker 4: Council Bill 745 is an ordinance approving six service plans for a new metropolitan district supporting redevelopment of the former Loreto Heights campus in the southwest Denver area. The districts are Colorado height metropolitan districts 1 to 5. And then there's also a sixth district that's called the Loreto Heights programing Metropolitan District.
Speaker 4: Together, the service plans are being submitted for City Council approval on behalf of ACM Loretto six LLC pursuant to the requirements of the Special District Act, Sections 32, Dash one, batch 201 and more, particularly 30 2-1, Dash 204.5 of the colorized Colorado Revised Statutes.
Speaker 4: The service plans contain the District's purpose, powers, requirements and financing plan. The district shall be responsible for compliance with the city's municipal code. Rules, regulations and policy and all other applicable law districts shall ensure that the District's public improvements are designed and constructed in accordance with the standards and specifications of the city and other governmental entities having
Speaker 4: jurisdiction. Tonight's public hearing is about the service plans for the metropolitan districts. It is not about the the small area plan that is also concurrently happening and will be at land use and land use. Transportation Infrastructure Committee tomorrow and at a public hearing next week, September and September 16th at city council.
Speaker 4: The the plan for the the area illustrates a mixed use mixed income multigenerational hub for the community serving both existing neighborhoods as well as for any future residents and new businesses located at the redevelopment site. The development plans include a variety of office retail, diverse resident and diverse resident.
Speaker 4: Residential uses, affordable housing, multimodal options, open space, historic preservation and the adaptive reuse of buildings are also top priorities in the plan. In fact, the plan Creation Hall is slated for adaptive reuse to create 69 affordable housing units for residents that are 30 to 80%.
Speaker 4: A area median income, additional affordable and attainable housing options are expected as well. The small area plan's commitment to affordability, connectivity and community is is the culmination of a year long process of listening to the registered neighborhood organizations, neighborhood citizens, local community leaders, historic Denver, Denver Public Schools, Loreto alumni and the former property owners, the Sisters of
Speaker 4: Loretto. The community led process involving over 1300 participants yielded an outcome with significant community assets, which would need to be developed and maintained through time. The communities desired improvements and the basic infrastructure and utilities totals nearly $97 million.
Speaker 4: Part of the answer to support the desired outcome is the creation of multiple districts with specific purposes and enough financial capacity to provide the opportunity to fund upfront construction costs plus the associated maintenance of the improvements through time.
Speaker 4: While the small area plan approval is not up for approval tonight, the City Council is being asked to consider approval for the service plans for the Loretta Hite Metropolitan Districts, which will assist in the implementing of the small area plan as approved by as proposed for City Council approval in the upcoming weeks.
Speaker 4: The metropolitan districts are an implementation tool and approval of the service plan does not approve or affect any zoning or land uses. The six proposed metro. Out in districts organized to work efficiently together are being organized to work efficiently together to enable financing, construction, ownership and maintenance of certain public improvements at the site.
Speaker 4: The districts will have three different areas of responsibility is anticipated. District number one will be the management district responsible for coordinating the previously mentioned activities for for the site and districts. Two through five will be the taxing districts, generating revenue to pay for cost of installing and maintaining public infrastructure.
Speaker 4: Arrangements for financing, acquiring, constructing, operating and maintaining public improvements will be created among the districts after creation. The sixth District is a programing district which will overlay the entire inclusion area and specifically assist in the programing of activities and facility maintenance of community assets on the site, including, but not limited to the plazas, the Grand Lawn and
Speaker 4: the campus quad, as well as the following structures currently known as the Administration Building, the MAVEN Stanton Theater, the indoor pool, the former campus library, and the preservation of a historic cemetery as potentially open space. The new metropolitan districts will be responsible for coordinating the financing, acquisition, construction, completion operation and maintenance of all public infrastructure and services
Speaker 4: within and without the services area, including without limitation street and sidewalk improvements, parking infrastructure, water, storm drainage detention and sanitary sewer improvements, landscape and irrigation. A public plaza and traffic and safety controls and improvements. The new metropolitan districts will have the power to raise revenues pursuant to the Authority's grant by the Special District Act up to the
Speaker 4: following aggregate limitations. Districts one through five can impose up to 50 bills for debt, up to 15 mills for operations and maintenance. And then separately, the programing district will have ability to impose up to 20 mills for programing and maintenance, specifically for the community assets called the Plazas, the Grand Lawn, the campus quad, the administration building, the
Speaker 4: Maven Piece Theater, the indoor pool, and the former campus library. The current programing district is not authorized to issue any debt. The total estimated cost of the public improvements necessary to serve the contemplated development are approximately $97 million.
Speaker 4: However, the district financing model does not achieve all the project funds required to cover the project cost of the nearly $97 million worth of improvements. The basic infrastructure of roads, utilities, drainage. Supporting the proposed development is estimated to cost about 43 million, while the costs of realizing the community hub as recommended by the community process is estimated
Speaker 4: to cost an additional 54 million. The outcomes desired by the community support the outcomes desired by the community. Support the concept of the mill levy parameters that are greater than the model service plan parameters in order to provide flexibility to future residents and constituents of the districts and provide the level of infrastructure, public services and programing desired
Speaker 4: by the community. The service plans include an increase to the maximum debt service melody and an increase to the maximum operations, maintenance and levy. Under the service plans, the change is to increase from 40 mills to 50 mills for debt.
Speaker 4: And. An increase of from ten mills to 15 mills for the maximum operations and maintenance melody. In addition, a separate programing district will be created to provide a mechanism to maintain and activate the community assets through time. Ultimately, these increases alone are not enough to meet the capital requirements of the community assets.
Speaker 4: So an application for tax increment has been submitted to Daera seeking further support for the community assets. Additional financing tools will be required to cover the project cost gap or a reduction in the desired community. Assets will need to be considered.
Speaker 4: The city views the metropolitan districts and additional financing tools as a successful approach to achieving neighborhood and citywide goals of affordability and equity. Without such tools, development projects often result in higher purchase prices and lack of public amenities.
Speaker 4: Approval of the service plan establishes the following There is sufficient existing and projected need for organized service in the area. The existing service in the area is inadequate for present and projected needs. The districts are capable of economically providing sufficient service to the area within the proposed boundaries.
Speaker 4: The land and proposed development to be included does and will have the financial ability to discharge proposed indebtedness on a reasonable basis. The facility and service standards will be compatible with the facility and service standards of the city.
Speaker 4: Once again, the approval of the service plan does not approve or affect any zoning or land uses. City staff recommends approval of the service plans. And with me tonight is the applicant and representative Mark Wicker. Wick I always your name sorry mark with two quick events and I'd like to invite him up here just to give a
Speaker 4: quick statement.
Speaker 1: Well, I think we have you signed up on in our public speaking. Oh, you.
Speaker 4: Do? Yep. Okay. Okay, then that is the end of my staff report. Okay.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. We have 13 individuals signed up to speak this evening. First is Mark were Cavic, if that's what it says right here. So I'm hoping that. That's right. Go ahead.
Speaker 9: Thank you. And yes, it is Mark Wood Cabbage. And good evening, President Clark and members of Denver City Council. My name is Mark Wood Cabbage. I am a partner at West Side Investment Partners. We are the owner of the Loretto Heights campus at 33,001 South Federal.
Speaker 9: Tonight, as Andrew mentioned, the Metro District's service plan is in front of you for approval. That is all just as a little background here. West Side purchased the property of the campus in the summer of 2018. Since that time, we've been on a holding pattern very intentionally.
Speaker 9: And the other thing that I want to point out to the council is that we only decided to purchase the campus after an exhaustive search was performed to try and maintain the campus as an educational facility. So we are stepping in only after that occurred.
Speaker 9: But since that time, we have been working in collaboration not only with the community but also with the city on an area planning process. And although that's not in front of us tonight, there has been an extensive and exhaustive outreach to the community as far as trying to find collaboration for the future of this project.
Speaker 9: And as Andrew mentioned, that does include about 1300 different participants in ten different steering committee meetings and four different public hearings. And there were also two online surveys. You know, unfortunately, we understand the trend in the in the city of Denver right now is a lot about mistrust.
Speaker 9: And that's precisely why we took out a practice for a letter for Loretta Heights to have a genuine community outreach program. In my opinion, the program that has been set forth is the gold standard for what the city should be expecting from all developers as they're reaching forward to other development projects for years to come.
Speaker 9: Councilman Flynn has reminded me on numerous occasions that Southwest Denver has been overlooked on many occasions in the past, and it's been far too long since anything great has happened in that side of town. It's also clear that the community in southwest Denver is seeking a place to call their own.
Speaker 9: The community envisions a mixed use. Mixed income, multi-generational development that honors the spirit of Loretto, embraces the campus characteristics and preserves the historic structures, while at the same time the community is not seeking a high density development. To breathe.
Speaker 9: New life back into the historic campus require a huge lift, and I underscore the word huge. The Loreto Heights Metropolitan District is just one of many, and I underscore the word many tools that will be required in order to make this campus great again.
Speaker 9: But without the tools like the Metro District, there's no chance of bringing the community vision to reality. In the case, the campus will either rot or be forced to be developed under the current zoning, which neither will bring many community benefits to Southwest Denver.
Speaker 9: I can stand here in front of you with whole heart and tell you that West Side.
Speaker 1: I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you. All right. And I neglected to call the first five up to the bench, so I'm going to do that now. Megan Bettcher, Lacy Knowles, John Henderson, Maribel Gage and Karen Calamity.
Speaker 1: If you want to come up to the front and Megan better, you are a first.
Speaker 6: Good evening, council members. I'm Meghan Becker. I am general counsel for that applicant and I'm just here to answer questions tonight. So thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much, Lacey Knowles.
Speaker 6: Good evening to the council as well.
Speaker 12: Only signals with the Davidson we're.
Speaker 3: Providing investment.
Speaker 6: Banking services to the metropolitan district. And I'm also here just to answer questions.
Speaker 12: Tonight as well.
Speaker 1: Thank you, John Henderson.
Speaker 9: Good evening. It's been a marathon, and I'm glad you're still here. I want to talk to you a little bit about special district abuse. I've been spending the last three years struggling with special district abuse, reading, learning everything there is to know.
Speaker 9: And now I'm sharing the information to try to educate city councils like yourself throughout the front range in the Denver City area. Our experience, we are spending $57 million, $57 million in interest on $7 million worth of pipe on the ground.
Speaker 9: The bonds that were paying interest on. Explained to the bond investors how excited the community was about spending all of this money and spending all this money on interest. What they failed to say in the bonds is that the election that took place to authorize that debt took place in 2006.
Speaker 9: The people who voted for that bond debt were eight people who were employed by the developer. The bonds do not explain. That the developer at the first election, which is the TABOR election referenced in the special this in the service plan the first thing they're going to vote on is removing eliminating the right of future residents to
Speaker 9: vote on their own taxes and their own bond debt. We didn't wake up to it until 11 years had passed. I've heard others say they didn't wake up to it until after 20 years passed. In our case, all of the public elections were canceled for 11 years.
Speaker 9: Because the developer and it says it in this service plan. Told our residents, you won't be able to vote. You won't be able to serve on the board until we're about 75%. They don't say 75% in the service plan, but they say eventually the residents will get around to being able to vote and serve.
Speaker 9: That is simply false. Under the statutes, as soon as someone has a contract to purchase property, they have a right to vote and serve on the board. I'm running out of time. I'm asking you all to step back from this.
Speaker 9: You need two other documents, and you need a better service plan. You need to know what the ballot issues are going to be because when you vote. If you vote to approve this tonight, you are voting to eliminate the right of the future residents to vote on future debt.
Speaker 9: You need disclosures.
Speaker 1: I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you. Next up, Maribel Gage.
Speaker 6: Thank you for the opportunity to be able to speak to you. I am a sister of Loreto for 51 years and an alumni of Loreto Heights.
Speaker 10: College.
Speaker 6: And a classmate of President Clarke's mother, Janna Maya.
Speaker 10: And Amanda Sandoval's mother, Mary Helen Donnelly, singer.
Speaker 6: I have three points I wish to bring to your attention. The first one is the symmetry. There is a symmetry on the northwest part of the campus, about a third of an.
Speaker 10: Acre.
Speaker 3: Where 62.
Speaker 6: Sisters of Loretto are buried from 1912 107 years ago through 1969, when the last burial.
Speaker 3: Took place. 50 years.
Speaker 10: Ago. That plot in the.
Speaker 6: Northwest section of the campus is a sacred space.
Speaker 10: Of historical.
Speaker 6: And cultural.
Speaker 10: Significance.
Speaker 6: That requires perpetual care. Fortunately, Loretto is involved in conversations with the West Side regarding the future of the cemetery. Part of that discussion will be whether or not the cemetery is to be included or excluded from the metropolitan district.
Speaker 6: Point two.
Speaker 10: Above the main.
Speaker 6: Entrance to the dominant structure, the administration or the Academy Building is engraved. The motto Fridays mores at cultural phase goodness and beauty. As you.
Speaker 10: Evaluate the redevelopment.
Speaker 6: Of the campus. May these values inspire you. Does this enhance.
Speaker 8: The faith.
Speaker 6: Life of our community? Will this promote goodness within our community? Beauty. Does this plan provide for ample views of this long, beloved bell tower and the.
Speaker 10: Totality of the administration building.
Speaker 6: And the chapel, as well as views of the Majestic Mountains to the West?
Speaker 1: I'm sorry for your time as a.
Speaker 10: Space.
Speaker 6: That will allow Mother Nature to nurture all.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you. Next up, Karen. Calamity and I'll call the next five up. Paul Fisher. You know Christine O'Connor.
Speaker 11: Sochi.
Speaker 1: Sochi. Gaetan, Kate Kitten. And Jesse Paris and Bonnie Gilbert. Go ahead.
Speaker 14: Hello. My name is Karen Calamity.
Speaker 6: I actually was invited to hear about Loreto.
Speaker 14: Highlights from Sister Mary Nell.
Speaker 6: At an event we call Wasted Fridays, where a lot of historians and political people meet and talk about what's happening in Denver and the area. And that was about two years ago. And as a person who grew up in Denver, I was born in Denver in 1957.
Speaker 6: And I've spent a lot of time in Denver.
Speaker 14: I I've remembered I've known about Loreto Heights.
Speaker 6: For years and years. And it's a.
Speaker 14: It's a very iconic site.
Speaker 6: It's a beautiful building.
Speaker 14: And set of buildings on.
Speaker 6: A on a hill there, the highest point in Denver.
Speaker 14: And it's got a lot of.
Speaker 6: Greenspace, which is in short supply. Now, I've had my experience with bad development just.
Speaker 14: In my own family, and.
Speaker 6: I've been very concerned about the potential for bad development.
Speaker 14: On this site.
Speaker 6: And the metropolitan district in the first place. Is the cart is the cart before the horse. The design has not been really finalized or perfected in a way that would warrant trying to finance it at this point, much less.
Speaker 6: It was based on this small area plan, which I did not feel was as inclusive as a lot of people are saying it was. We have an instance where this is a beautiful green site, one of the few green sites left 72 acres of green and beautiful architecture.
Speaker 6: It's not like a, you know, a parking lot that we were hearing about before, you know, terrible situations where it's abandoned buildings. I mean, these are older buildings that are empty now, but they're not not derelict buildings. These are beautiful architecture, beautiful landscape.
Speaker 6: And I don't see the plan respecting the one of the few places in Denver that has this green space that we need to keep intact with the.
Speaker 14: Animals, with.
Speaker 6: The right for people to have bike trails and pedestrian trails and take advantage of the green space. It's heavily dominated by residences and high density buildings, and it just doesn't seem right.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Paul Fiorina.
Speaker 0: Good evening. Thank you, President, and welcome new members. Listen, Loretta Heights is a big part of me as well. I my career started there. I was singing.
Speaker 4: There with Dr. Brecker.
Speaker 0: Back in the day. I was. My daughter was born after a performance in 85, after that show. And so I come to to, again, support the fact that this is a pioneer property. This is Denver's highest.
Speaker 4: And oldest property.
Speaker 0: This is a property that not only has an educational institution.
Speaker 11: But a campus.
Speaker 0: And let's call it what it is. This is our opportunity to step up.
Speaker 11: And.
Speaker 0: Make this a campus for the.
Speaker 11: Arts and humanities.
Speaker 0: Denver is now and Colorado.
Speaker 11: Is.
Speaker 0: Number one in arts participation in the nation after 12 years.
Speaker 11: Of fighting.
Speaker 0: Tooth and nail. And, you know, every one of you know that this is your battleground for our nuns, for our Loreto nuns who have come to Colorado first. Established St Mary's Academy then built this place. Now we have an opportunity and this owner has a right of first refusal.
Speaker 0: Are you familiar with that? There's a statute r0fr right of first refusal. It's time for City Council to pick that up and look at it. This is an opportunity to buy this property as is. With the new money we just got from our Parks and Rec.
Speaker 0: This is a Parks and Rec issue. This property needs to be transferred.
Speaker 11: To a51.
Speaker 0: C3 nonprofit organization. A consortium, if you will. To have at least two of you on the board directing this particular development.
Speaker 11: And not having become divided. And conquer. That's what's happening here. Dammit!
Speaker 1: Could you please watch your language in our chamber? And could you please state your name? I've had it. Could you state your name for the record?
Speaker 11: Okay. I'm sorry. I didn't.
Speaker 1: Mean to. Sir, could you please state your name for the record? Your name?
Speaker 4: My name's Paul Fiorina. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Sir.
Speaker 0: Anderson Heights is your battleground right now.
Speaker 4: Right here.
Speaker 1: All right. Next up, Christine O'Connor.
Speaker 15: My name is Christine O'Connor. I do not live in the Laredo Heights area. I know some people have been talking about the plan, but you yourself talk nothing. The owner is not going to talk.
Speaker 1: About the comments to council, not.
Speaker 15: To talk about the service plan, because and I read it and I have it open here if people want to ask me questions. But I want you to turn this down today for many reasons. First of all, this is self-serving by the developer who will be able to issue bonds in a huge amount that will be paid
Speaker 15: back by the developers. I know that you all are thinking about the recent audit that O'Brien did about the homeless affordable housing program and all the mistakes that are made and buyers who are buying property without being in that category.
Speaker 15: I think you would agree with me that prospective homebuyers and future Denver ites need to know what they're getting into here in the service plan. At a minimum, city council should reject this service plan, require the owner to file a new one.
Speaker 15: That one includes a homeowner buyer home buyer form with large font include specific timeline regarding when the future prospective residents get these disclosures. Spells out what specifically will be disclosed. Some of the things that should be prominently disclosed.
Speaker 15: One The home's annual property taxes, including the metro district taxes and how it compares to a similarly valued Denver home outside the District two, a breakdown of how much debt residents will pay to finance infrastructure, administration operations, maintenance and programing in the district.
Speaker 15: Three A prominent statement explaining that no future resident, except possibly if they get on the board, will ever have the right to vote on taxes and debt. And fourth, information that residents will have the right to serve on the district board as soon as they enter a contract to purchase property.
Speaker 15: Second, I would like you all to turn to Article two, Part six, the district rationale in the service plan. I'm not going to read it because I always run out of time. But basically it's a statement that says We need to form this structure.
Speaker 15: It's necessary for the public improvements. First of all, it's just pro forma language. It's a recitation that they need. Where's the proof? There's no proof in the service plan or in any documents that I've seen. First of all, this didn't even come to anybody's attention until July 30th.
Speaker 15: All the outreach that was done on the plan had nothing to do with the district, the service plan. It had to do with the area plan. So I'd like you to read that and say and require that the people here representing the developer get up and give you that proof today that no, no other way exist for
Speaker 15: this to be done. Third, I ask you to ask if will be sorry, but.
Speaker 1: Your time is up.
Speaker 15: I can't be.
Speaker 1: Up. Yep. Sorry. Thank you very much. Next up, Sochi Gaytan.
Speaker 6: Hi. My name is Sachin Gaitan. I'm president of Hip Co. The Harvey Park Community Organization Hippo voted to oppose the Loreto Heights area plan and the Metro District Service Plan. We informed City Planning and Councilman Flynn of ZIP Codes five Concerns of the area plan one It must be a landmark historic district designation.
Speaker 6: Two We need strong language around indicating that Dartmouth Avenue will not go through traffic taking traffic into the elementary school. Three Mitigation of traffic must be stronger language for other streets and avenues heading in the southwest direction for maintenance of the pond.
Speaker 6: Waterways and wildlife in the southwest region have been nearly ignored. Five Limiting building heights to five storeys and not going higher because we lose adequate view planes of the admin clocktower building. We all know that the higher the building, the higher the penthouse, the higher the penthouse, the higher the prices, hence causing gentrification and unaffordability.
Speaker 6: We oppose the Metro District Service Plan due to the important components in state law, Title 32 that have been ignored in the last decades. One boundary City Council should require that the developer tell you what those improvements should be, and there needs to be a notice to new property owners telling them what will be spent outside of
Speaker 6: the boundaries. Two purpose You should have a clear understanding of why this special district is created. It's simply for the bottom line of the developer. Three Who and how is this being paid for? Feature residents will pay double the property taxes of those outside of the district.
Speaker 6: Over 50% of the financing debt from the entire metro district will go to renovate the theater, the garage and the admin building. And it should only be for infrastructure, not for private properties. Four There should be a detailed ballot initiative that should be attached to this.
Speaker 6: It will help you determine whether you oppose, approve or disapprove this service plan itself. Special districts are required to comply with TABOR. However, in this case, the developer is going to eliminate TABOR for the residents of the district through the election.
Speaker 6: So why not? Then, instead of placing metro districts in our communities in order to avoid Tabor, he put more effort into reforming TABOR. The scam is that the developer issues bonds with interest, that these future residents will end up paying $4.9 billion with no oversight.
Speaker 6: This plan is a poster child to these abuses. You are giving power and latitude to the developer, forcing the gentrification sweep. Developers have had this playbook since the eighties. Bond investors, developers, special district management companies run these special districts.
Speaker 6: They benefit and push us out. Black, brown, indigenous peoples and working class whites out of the sky.
Speaker 1: But your time is up. No, thank you. Next up, Jesse Pierce.
Speaker 7: Jesse Paris, represented for Denver, home of Salau Blackstar, some movement for self defense and positive action committed for social change. And I was on top of the ballot for city council at large, almost 15,000 votes this past May 2019 election.
Speaker 7: We are against this for the reasons that were already previously stated. It seems Denver is up for grabs to the highest developer. You give developers full rein to do whatever they want to do in this town and nobody is holding them accountable for what they do.
Speaker 7: We don't need any more unintended consequences. We already have enough it out with Stapleton. Stapleton is a metropolitan district, which is the exact same thing that you're trying to do, Loretta Heights. Now, I went to school for like six months at Loretta Heights back in college.
Speaker 7: I had to take some Romanians for math. So I'm kind of familiar with this campus. And I was there this past campaign season for one of Flynn's events. Kevin Flynn, councilman for the District. So I'm kind of familiar with this area.
Speaker 7: So, yeah, I wanted to know, are you going to do a traffic study for the reasons data is Dartmouth's going to be redirected to go all the way through to the school. What's going on with the campus itself?
Speaker 7: Is this still going to be an educational institution? Are you going to try to turn it into a health campus? Are you going to try to mix it all up? What's going on with that and then what's going on with the housing?
Speaker 7: Ah what kind of housing are you going to be providing here and what am I levels that are going to be because there's nothing I'm going to tell you that's going to make you not approve this tonight because it's just going to be business as usual.
Speaker 7: You have made it apparently clear that developers have bought and sold you. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Next up, Bonnie Gilbert.
Speaker 12: Hi. I'm Bonnie Gilbert. I live have lived in Harvey Park for the last 30 years, fairly close to Loreto Heights. I have many concerns about the Service Metro District plan, which includes the lack of community input. When the plan was being developed.
Speaker 6: The how much.
Speaker 12: Affordable housing will there be and the likely, likely gentrification in the surrounding areas. I am disappointed that the community was not made aware of and included in the process of the Metro plan. When asking and asking questions about the development, the community have been told over and over that certain topics would not be addressed because it was
Speaker 12: too soon in the process. Then we found out by accident that a metropolitan plan, which included answers to many of our questions, had been released.
Speaker 14: One week.
Speaker 12: After the end of the area. Plan process would have helped our understanding of the project if the Service Metro Plan had been discussed previously and in-depth with the community. The plan being voted on tonight will increase property taxes dramatically for those who move onto the former campus compared to those currently living in similar home in the neighboring
Speaker 12: communities. There's no indication under this plan how much desperately needed affordable housing there will be on the former campus. With taxes so high with the new development, it will likely make much of the housing unaffordable. Another consideration is gentrification in the surrounding areas because of the apparent lack of affordable housing, residents who have lived in the area
Speaker 12: for decades may be forced to leave the no longer affordable area. The service district plan should have been made public much sooner so that the plan could be studied. Specific questions could be answered about the districts and the community could give more input once the plan was made public.
Speaker 12: We in the community.
Speaker 6: Should have been.
Speaker 12: Notified of the plan because there was not enough time to thoroughly study the plan and get more public input. I have serious concerns about the taxation of residents, lack of affordable housing and gentrification. I request that you do not pass this service metro plan in its current form.
Speaker 12: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Gregorio Alcala.
Speaker 11: It.
Speaker 7: Thank you, members of the council. I am sixth.
Speaker 0: Generation Denver, right. My family came.
Speaker 7: Here over a hundred years ago, lived in the area, was one of the 400 families displaced.
Speaker 0: The 200 businesses displaced my life and many lives were formed by master plans policies. However.
Speaker 7: I come here tonight in hopes that we can learn from past, from debt, from urban renewal, mistakes, and some of the successes we've had in historic preservation in the city, in the.
Speaker 0: State and in the country. What we have here is a gateway to Denver's past.
Speaker 7: And architectural past, an incredible site that does not exist anywhere left in our city boundaries. The highest point of open space that evolve through a whole different process of systems coming here and developing it.
Speaker 11: But we do not have. And we have not had.
Speaker 7: Plant designers and experts involved. In this so-called community process. We have had professional engineers, landscape architects, historians.
Speaker 0: Ecologists, theologians, geographers that have been excluded to share free of charge.
Speaker 7: What alternatives we can do through a design.
Speaker 0: Process. With respect to the planners in our city, we have here a different language. We don't have.
Speaker 7: Designers representing the people.
Speaker 0: They use different languages, programs, tools.
Speaker 7: We are also talking about a democratic.
Speaker 0: Process that is at risk here. We have professionals in our community, in our.
Speaker 7: State that can demonstrate alternatives, that will benefit developers. But also think about we talked about sustainability 50 years from now. Cultural landscapes. Environmental integrity that has not been addressed, that has not been part of a base map that we've been asking from the very beginning to have a cultural, historical, environmental base map created an inventory and an
Speaker 7: analysis to present to the people of Denver, to the community.
Speaker 0: Through the working class, through indigenous people, people of past, present.
Speaker 7: And future cultural perspectives, to understand how great this site is and what it could be. It's not about prohibiting profit. It's it's about not imposing limitations for how great this site could be. And we will provide examples, concrete examples, using technology of historic sites in Denver, Colorado, the state, and across the country and the world of how
Speaker 7: this could be a great site if we.
Speaker 11: Give an extension.
Speaker 0: It's way too fast.
Speaker 7: We have ignored basic protocol, basic processes.
Speaker 1: I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you. Next up, Jim Gibson. Good evening. I'm Jim Gibson. I live at 2787 South Stuart and I'm representing the Loreto Heights Community Initiative. First and foremost, developers should pay their own way.
Speaker 1: A service metropolitan district plan is simply not necessary for improvements. Like every other owner, the developer should get his own private financing to pay for his own improvements. Why should the developer, which is the same thing right now as a metro district, get a taxpayer handout more than doubling of property taxes on the future residents of the
Speaker 1: district. This service plan is not ready for prime time. It's a blank check and should be rejected by council this evening. If council still believes that the taxpayer should subsidize this developer, at the very least, he should say no tonight and demand a version that holds the developer more accountable and protects future homebuyers.
Speaker 1: Similar to other service plans around the state, the master developer keeps a small parcel of land, which will be the operating district. That way, he'll be able to control the five.
Speaker 7: Taxing districts indefinitely, keeping residents in debt.
Speaker 1: And their property taxes high. Please see page B one of the service plan. The second version of the service plan should not include this small parcel of land and should include a limit on the total of an amount of debt that can be incurred to pay back this debt.
Speaker 1: Future owners and renters will pay in property taxes up to an additional 90 mills. More than double what other Denver homeowners have to pay is shared by the city administration in the Finance and Governance Committee meeting on July 30th.
Speaker 1: Tonight's request represents the highest additional property tax millage increase for a metropolitan district in Denver ever. The doubling of property taxes on homes within the district will make the availability of additional affordable housing very difficult, if not impossible.
Speaker 1: This huge increase in property taxes will inevitably result in higher priced homes than the surrounding neighborhoods to.
Speaker 0: The north and east of the.
Speaker 1: Site. The result will be the gentrification of those communities and many displaced working class and senior residents to protect residents. Service Plan 2.0 should include the language of the measures that will be on the November 2019 ballot, when the district would be created.
Speaker 1: Similar service plans around the state suggest that, among others, this list of ballot measures are most likely to include the election of district board members, all of which will be the developer's people, because no one owns property there right now.
Speaker 1: An exemption from TABOR requirements, including eliminating the future residents right to vote on bond debt and taxes. Those decisions will be left up to the developer control district, board members and a waiver of term limits for district board members to further ensure long term developer control of the site.
Speaker 1: Please say no to this service plan. Thank you. Thank you. That concludes our speakers. Are there questions for members of Council on this issue? Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. Andrew, could you come on up? Good evening. Hi. Do you know how many metropolitan districts there are in the city at the moment? City and county. Denver's been has a lot of metropolitan districts. I think we're well over 80 metropolitan districts right now.
Speaker 4: Okay. And when I downloaded the data from our map data website actually counted about 120 or 130. Is that because some of them like here, also include districts that come under a management district like being proposed here? Yeah, correct.
Speaker 4: And so you're right, there's probably about 120, but not all of them are active. And so is a statutory thing where they called inactive status, where maybe they were approved, but there's no purpose for them and they are under like a management construct.
Speaker 4: So for instance, like in this case with Loreto Heights, you'll have the management district. No, that's number one. Our district, district number one and district's number two through five may actually be inactive until such time that there's actually development on the site.
Speaker 4: Okay. So a number of them have the 50 mil maximum for debt, correct? That is true. Okay. Because I think someone had said that 50 mills was was hired by was higher than but a good number according to the list we were provided that have that for debt.
Speaker 4: Right. And there are a couple of metro districts out in northeast Denver that are higher than 90 mills at the moment. Is that correct? There are some metropolitan districts that were created many years ago, probably even earlier than 1990.
Speaker 4: And when those service plans were put together, those service plans did not even contain military caps, which the service plan does. And as such, they have the opportunity to have rather high mle levies if they're listed as unlimited.
Speaker 4: Yeah, and they are unlimited. Okay. And the table that we were provided showed that some of them have had or two of them have district levies that total over 100 mils. Correct. Okay. And that some of those districts have management district structure with several taxing districts coming under them, correct?
Speaker 4: That is true. Do you recall the last time? And if you don't just say so, when was the last time that the city came in and constructed streets, water, sewer, drainage and other improvements for private development? And I I've been with the city for about 12 years or so, and I do not recall any instance where I've
Speaker 4: seen that. Okay, in those 12 years, how many metro districts have gone forward? Um, I don't know, but quite a lot. Fernald and Green Valley Ranch, I think, is one of the oldest. The Ebert District in 1973, I think was the date on it.
Speaker 4: Correct. Okay. And a couple of the new ones would be what? The Navajo Market in in my district, we have Granite Ranch. We have Union Station and a couple of other. Yeah. Just last fall, we did a series of districts.
Speaker 4: We had a one called Hurley Place. It was in the Reno neighborhood. Yeah, we had one called the River Mile, which is a similar structure. And so those are some of the other examples. Okay. To be clear now, the mill levee that we're being discussed that we're discussing here applies only to the real estate and improvements that
Speaker 4: are on the property now owned by West Side and not to any property outside the campus boundaries, including the number of public schools, DST, school on the campus, but is completely encircled by West Side properties and the Catholic Charities Mount Loretto Apartments off to the side.
Speaker 4: That's correct. That is correct. The it's called the service area and inclusion area and the DPS and I I'm not sure about the second building, but I don't believe that second building is in the inclusion area. No, that's okay.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mark. We have each. What does the metro district provide for in terms of the cemetery? We heard Sister Mary now talk about the future of the cemetery. What are the provisions in the service plan for dealing with the cemetery, understanding that it may be excluded at some point and that's still being talked about?
Speaker 9: Sure. That is being talked about whether the district would perform any work on the cemetery. But if it were to perform work on the cemetery, it would be performed landscaping and open space type work.
Speaker 4: Okay. Now, one of the speakers mentioned or several mentioned open space in the service plan. There appears to be more open space than was recommended by the community in the area plan process that will be seeing her next month.
Speaker 4: What are the plans for open space that are funded by the Metro District? Parks, plazas, trails? What exactly does it consist of?
Speaker 9: All the above, sir.
Speaker 4: Okay. And there's. These are subject to change, of course. But I think the area plan will recommend the standard 10% seven acres. The diagram in the service plan shows significantly more. But you don't really have a a fixed number on that yet.
Speaker 9: I don't have a fixed number on that, Councilman Flynn, but I can tell you that the objective is to well exceed the city standards.
Speaker 4: Is to want.
Speaker 9: To exceed the city standards.
Speaker 4: Okay. What measures does the metro district intend to use for to ensure transparency for purchasers?
Speaker 9: Sure. That's a great question. I'll answer part of it, but I'm going to also ask my legal counsel to come up and answer sectorial the rest of it. By statute, there is disclosures that you have to be included.
Speaker 9: There are opportunities that are recorded against the property. And I if it's okay with you, I like Megan to explain that a little bit further. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thanks.
Speaker 6: Thank you. To answer that question, Councilmember Flynn, the transparency comes on all different levels. Statutorily, this is a local government, so the district must comply with all of the same disclosure requirements public records, public meetings, audit audit laws, budget laws, election laws, construction, bidding laws.
Speaker 6: Anything that relates to a requirement of a local government within the state, the district must comply with specifically relative to disclosure to purchasers. Statutorily, there are several notices that are required. There is a notice that is required to be recorded against the property within the boundaries of the district.
Speaker 6: In addition to that, the order and decree creating the district will be recorded against the property. So there's disclosure at that level. There are annual transparency notices that must be submitted to essentially a public repository, which may include a district website and or the Special District Association website.
Speaker 6: So that is available. There is an annual reporting requirement directly to the city, so the district will be selling information annually to the city, which is obviously also available to the public. So on several levels.
Speaker 4: All right. Thank you, Mark. The $96.9 million in identified public improvements in the metro district plan. Of course, not all of that can be funded by the mill levy. And you're pursuing other avenues, like through borough, through grants, through like tack five funding and tax credits, historic tax credits and things like that.
Speaker 4: Is that correct?
Speaker 9: That is 100% correct, sir.
Speaker 4: Okay. Of that, 96.9 million. My math. And it's always dangerous to do math on the fly there. 53.9 million of that is in the community benefits portion, the theater restoration, the academy building, etc., as opposed to the traditional infrastructure of the streets, the sewers, the water, the drainage, the traffic control, etc..
Speaker 4: So more than half in the community benefits. All of those items were requested and put in the area plan by the community, were they not?
Speaker 9: Yeah. That is a true statement, sir.
Speaker 4: I'm. The just pull out the street improvements. 20.4 million was the tentative price tag on street improvements. If the metro district model were not being used here, how much would those street improvements cost?
Speaker 9: There would be no change in the cost, sir.
Speaker 4: Okay. So the way that we finance it doesn't affect the capital cost. It affects the repayment cost.
Speaker 9: That's a true statement.
Speaker 4: Okay. So I won't go through all of them one by one. But but all of these recommendations are consistent with what the community process came up with over the past year, correct?
Speaker 9: Yes.
Speaker 4: Okay. Did you explore the alternatives that were mentioned, for instance, private obtaining, private financing? And what was the analysis? What did you decide would be the effect on affordability if you were to obtain private bank financing, to build the streets, etc., to do the theater instead of doing metro district bonds?
Speaker 9: Sure. That's a great question. Can I tell you that I specifically explored private financing for the roads and streets on this particular project? The answer is no, but in historical respects I can tell you the answer to that question from other projects.
Speaker 9: The one of the luxuries of using public financing, such as a metro district to do capital improvements for public improvements is you're able to get much better economic rates, as an example, from a bonding capacity than you would if you privately financed it.
Speaker 9: And to be honest with you, I'm not sure this is even privately financeable, but if you were able to find financing dollars for it, it would be very expensive money. Similarly, if you were if we were to go out hypothetically and go out and privately finance this, there's still a cost to doing that.
Speaker 9: The cost still has to be capitalized and it has to be repaid. Rather than having bonds issued, which could be paid over a long period of time, that cost would have to be recouped immediately upfront. So what would be the end result of that?
Speaker 9: The end result of that would be literally the house would cost more money. Those that are leasing either apartment spaces or office spaces, the lease rates would be higher. And because of all that, everything that would happen on the campus would cost more.
Speaker 9: For an example, that hot dog or that cup of coffee. But further, we haven't actually answered all the questions. And you didn't specifically ask this question, but I'm going to explore it for you. If we go in and we put in infrastructure and we privately finance finance it, what happens from the maintenance?
Speaker 9: Operation standpoint, there still is grass that needs to be cut, snow that needs to be plowed, and there's plants, flowers that need to be planted in order to achieve the vision that the community is asking.
Speaker 4: That would be that would be on the order of, say, a nature way that would have fees that would do something like that. Yes, sir. In the alternative. So just to summarize, what you're saying is that the bond financing, which probably likely is obtainable at a lower interest rate, would result in lower lower costs for housing rentals
Speaker 4: , commercial than borrowing upfront at bank rates and having to recoup that cost right away.
Speaker 9: Yeah, because the cost that you would have to pay for is not only the bank rate because you would never, ever get 100% financing on this. You would have to go out and raise private equity to build the other half of it, which would be very expensive capital.
Speaker 4: Final question, Mr. President. Thank you. You sat in on all the area plan meetings with the community. Is the density that is being recommended in the plan sufficient to leverage private financing for this?
Speaker 9: I'm not following your question 100%. Can you rephrase it?
Speaker 4: The density that is being recommended, the low density on the Irving Street side, the the medium, the low medium, and then the high medium up on the south end and up along the north end. Is that density sufficient to produce leverage that would leverage private financing as opposed to the metro district?
Speaker 9: I think what you're asking the question is if we had high density, all high density on this, could we do this without metro district financing? Maybe. I don't know the answer to the question. And I honestly didn't even explore it because it's not what the community is asking for.
Speaker 4: All right. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Flynn. Councilman Black.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Henderson, I had a clarifying from you. I feel like I read an email from you and I can't find it in my email, but you live in solitary or something like that, is that correct?
Speaker 9: Correct. There was an article in the newspaper. I wrote a commentary. It wasn't an email, but it told told the story.
Speaker 6: Okay. And where is that located?
Speaker 9: That's in Lakewood. If you know where Dinosaur Ridge is, it's directly across the a470 from Dinosaur Ridge.
Speaker 6: Okay. So I just I'm trying to get from Meg in to address your concern about the elections not happening. So.
Speaker 9: How does that work?
Speaker 6: She was nodding her head when you were talking about that. So if you wouldn't mind, Megan, can you address that and how that would be different here? And then while you're at it, Ms.. Gaitonde had some additional legal concerns about boundaries, TABOR and oversight.
Speaker 6: So I think all those things are probably related. If you want to discuss that, I'll stand up here for a little bit. Okay. Thank you. Relative to the question on elections. So as I mentioned previously, elections are is ah, it's late.
Speaker 6: I apologize. One of the requirements of districts is local governments. So we follow the same election cycles, the same election requirements as all other local governments in the state. So relative to director elections, currently those director elections are held in May of every even year.
Speaker 6: So next elections will be 2020 in May. There is a statutory provision that indicates when there are not more candidates than seats available, the election may be canceled. That's the instance when an election may be canceled in the theory they're statutorily legislatively.
Speaker 6: The history is if you have two seats open and you have two candidates need not go through the entire expense and cost of an election when you have two people for two seats. And so I can only presume that perhaps that was the circumstance that occurred with Mr. Henderson.
Speaker 6: That is what is statutorily authorized. To the extent there is more candidates and seats available, the election must be held. One of the questions that was raised, I think by several individuals was who's entitled and qualified to be an elector and therefore take and have one of the seats on the districts.
Speaker 6: It is any individual that is over 18 and registered to vote in the state of Colorado, who is a resident of the district for more than 30 days, or who owns property they and their spouse within the boundaries of the district or has an interest in real property via a contract whereby they're obligated to pay taxes.
Speaker 6: And so any of those individuals at the time of election, in accordance with the election requirements, would be considered an elector able to sit on the boards. Okay. And one of the concerns was about oversight. Sure. So oversight in each district, these districts will each have a board of directors.
Speaker 6: That is the governance board. Again, in all of the requirements relative to open records, procedures, open meetings, just like the city council here is run by a board of directors. The board of directors must be registered electors of the district in the same manner that I just described and compliant with all of those statutory requirements.
Speaker 6: And that also relates to the transparency with all the, you know, requirements relative to the recorded disclosures, the annual budgeting auditing requirements that that are associated with that. So the directors would oversee sort of high level financing decisions, as well as hiring someone to play as the board.
Speaker 6: To that end, yes. So decisions are made by the board. Just just like the city council makes a decision, a majority vote. The district would retain consultants to assist with compliance of all of these matters. So there are managers, legal accountants or rather legal advisers, accountants, engineers, construction advisers, project managers, just like, you know, the city.
Speaker 6: It takes a village. The same is true with the district, and the district and board can approve entering into engagements with all of the appropriate and requisite professionals necessary to ensure compliance with all of the statutory, regulatory and all other requirements the district must comply with.
Speaker 6: Then all of that information is public. Okay. Thank you very much.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman CdeBaca.
Speaker 6: I'd like to bring back up socially Guyton and Mr. Henderson. Mr. Henderson first. You didn't get a lot of time to explain the 57 million on the 7 million. Can you explain how that financing and paying back the debt works?
Speaker 9: Of course. Of course. And it's it's it's not everywhere. This is not unique. And it'll happen here, too. What the developer is saying to you all in the service plan is he's going to loan the cost of the infrastructure to the future residents.
Speaker 9: I've talked to many developers. I've represented them as well as citizens and engineers. And they have uniformly said. The most expensive way to build and finance infrastructure is through these special districts. Because here's what's happened. They take the actual cost.
Speaker 9: They had a profit. Pick a number. There is no accountability. And that's why you all are so important, because you all are the only check and balance in this process until we get all the residents in the community.
Speaker 9: You are it. And the statute gives you the power to require more information to call them in on the carpet. And if they're not doing what they supposed to do, you can dissolve the district. So we start with the actual cost.
Speaker 9: You add profit. Pick a number. There's no accountability. Then because it's a loan, you take that cost and the profit and you add interest. The interest in our case, $21 million. So that's $7 million worth of pipe in the ground.
Speaker 9: That's the first one. The second loan is because the residents can't pay all of that. Says the developer. The developer is running the boards. This first election that they're going to have here in a couple of weeks. The TABOR election is going to take away the power of the voters to vote on bond that and give it
Speaker 9: to the boards which are going to be exclusively, exclusively the developer for at least ten, in some cases 20 years. And that board is going to then say, okay, we're going to. Issue bond debt to pay off the loan.
Speaker 9: So now you have the interest on the loan, $21 million. And then you have the interest on the bonds. Another 37.6 million. Add those two up, we're paying $57 million in interest for $7 million worth of pipe in the private.
Speaker 9: This is a way to generate another profit center for the developers. I've talked to the special district attorney. They say it's just the name of the game. Go along to get along.
Speaker 6: Can you can you talk about those documents that you were saying should be coming first? You got cut off?
Speaker 9: Yes. There's there you have the service plan. There are defects in the service plan. Even our service plan tells us how much we're paying. It says you cannot pay more than X number of million dollars in principal. This service plan leaves open, it says will close to 96.
Speaker 9: No, you all need to set limits. If there's no limit, there's no control. It's a blank check. So the first document is to tighten up the service plan. The second document. This is the most important one. The ballot issues.
Speaker 9: You never you've never seen them. No city or county in the front range has ever seen them. The ballot issue, the eight, in our case, the eight employees of the developer are voting. To eliminate the right of future residents to vote on bond se and they give it to the developer boards.
Speaker 9: You all should have that in front of you. You should know that when you're voting on this, you're voting to eliminate the right of future residents to vote on the bond. But. The the the other piece of information in that ballot issue that you need to be aware of is they don't put it in the service plan
Speaker 9: or in the ballot issue. They're going to establish a maximum amount of financing. They said it would cost $27 million to build our infrastructure. You all are talking about 96. The financing for that, in our case, just one.
Speaker 9: $27 million of infrastructure. $4.9 billion. And that becomes important when they issue the bonds because the bonds have a limit. They say, okay, they can only pay 50 mils. But the debt is higher. They can't pay it off.
Speaker 9: So the interest keeps rolling. And what happens is you don't pay off that bond. You don't pay off that debt until you hit $4.9 billion. That number is important. You need to know what that number is and you aren't going to see it unless you get the ballot issues.
Speaker 9: You should have that in front of you before you vote on this. The third set of documents that are important are the internal agreements. They reference them in their in the service plan. Why do you have all these separate districts?
Speaker 9: And then there's one management district. Think back to Western civilization course, right? Feudalism. You have a small parcel that no residents are going to live in. In our case, it was ten square feet. In this case, it's 1/10 of an acre.
Speaker 9: Because no residents live there. The developer controls it. And that's the management district. That's the one that makes all the spending and taxing decisions. These other myriad districts. They just provide the money. They want to keep control over the taxing and spending, and they do it by living in this district.
Speaker 9: So these two agreements are important. The third area of agreements, the first agreement is all those other districts, the three or four or five, seven, how many, however many there are in our case? Or three? They all agree.
Speaker 9: It's a tax themselves and pay all the money to the First District blusher. The second agreement is the first District flusher agrees to pay all the advances of the developer. I guarantee you it'll happen here. It's happened in every special district I've looked at.
Speaker 9: It happened in hours.
Speaker 6: Let me clarify. So you're saying that the coordinating district could basically decide to impose the mills on the other districts and not itself?
Speaker 9: Excellent point. It import imposes the the mill rate the tax. But because it's so small. And nobody lives there. They don't pay.
Speaker 1: Anything.
Speaker 6: Got it.
Speaker 9: The developer doesn't pay anything. They're totally fine. And the important thing. The signatures on all those agreements, it's all the same person. Got it. It's the developer saying I'm going to pay myself. And. The developer of the first District, then paying the developer.
Speaker 9: So it's a wonderful it's a wonderful operation. I've talked to developers in other parts of the country and they said, Oh my God, that's fantastic. We wouldn't have we don't have spent any money. I have gone through the details in our in our area and talked to other developers about it.
Speaker 9: And this is the most expensive way to do it. There are alternative ways and all I'm suggesting and as I peddle this this around the state. Number one disclosures. Tell the residents when they walk in to buy that house.
Speaker 9: Here's how much interest you're going to be paying over the life of your special district loan. Here's the total amount of money that you will be paying in principal. And by the way, as soon as you sign that contract, you have a right to vote and serve on the board.
Speaker 9: And if anybody tells you different like they did in our community for over 11 years. You just do it. And. But the residents here in our state know more about financing the purchase of a used car than they do financing a house in a special district.
Speaker 9: And that's wrong. And you all are in the best position to require those disclosures.
Speaker 6: Thank you so much, Mr. Henderson. So, Chief, can you talk to us? I heard some concerns about outreach and how there were there was outreach, but not necessarily regarding the financing structure. Can you tell me a little bit more about some of the challenges there?
Speaker 6: Yeah. Yeah. Thank you for asking, Councilwoman. So the baca. My apologies to. I'm very tired. I usually go to bed early, so I got a little boy I take to school really early in the morning. But yeah, the I'm a Spanish speaking indigenous Latina and city planning nor Councilman Flynn's office nor the developer ever reached out to
Speaker 6: me as a Spanish speaking leader in our community to bring folks into this Spanish speaking community wide meeting. And only ten or 12 Spanish speaking folks showed up to that meeting. And that's it. 10 to 12 people representing our Latino community to me is very inauthentic and not true community outreach and engagement for this process.
Speaker 6: And that was for the area plan process. And those folks were also not informed of the Metro District plan. So they didn't have that information when they were making the decisions. And was the financing structure something that was explained to you in the English version of community engagement?
Speaker 6: No, as a matter of fact, it was might have been mentioned once. I don't know if it was by the developer or by Councilman Flynn. It was mentioned once as a possible tool for financing and it was mentioned once early on and never brought up again at all.
Speaker 6: So it was never defined during the area plan process. And Jeb Gibson, who is was our representative for Hip Cove, our primary representative, could share more with you about that question about historic district status. So I've heard it come up from multiple people, the the desire to protect the historic nature of this process, of this property.
Speaker 6: Did anyone pursue historic designation? If not, why not? You know, that's a little more difficult for me to answer. I can bring Jim Gibson up or our representative that can share more with you. But for us, it's for hip.
Speaker 6: It was it's uber important that that happens on that campus. There's a lot of historical buildings that we want to be protected and especially the view planes of those buildings. So we're very, very concerned about the view planes.
Speaker 6: Would you like me to bring Jim Gibson up if he's still here? Jim, is he still here?
Speaker 1: Gentlemen, I just want to check in there. You're going after this question from on the metro district, not from the neighborhood plan perspective, because we will be taken out of next week, September and Louie coming up. So you're doing a.
Speaker 6: Story district.
Speaker 1: Historic district through the lens of this bill, not the next one that's coming.
Speaker 6: Yeah, because it feels like I mean, this entire thing feels like putting the cart before the horse. And so I think this would have been the first step or conversation to have. And so I'm curious about even how these pieces got out of order to begin with.
Speaker 1: But your question, counsel.
Speaker 6: Was his. I heard a lot about historic status, historic preservation of the area. Why was this not pursued? Was this a part early part of community conversations?
Speaker 1: Yes, that's a great question. And it it speaks right to the way the area plan process was conducted, because essentially when I when I first entered this process, I assumed that, you know, issues would be put on the table.
Speaker 1: We would wrestle with them, we would work through them and then come to some sort of rough consensus. That's not the way it worked at all. What happened was you we planning would put up some slides on the board and they would say, okay, what do you think of this?
Speaker 1: What do you think of this? What do you think of this? We'd have maybe 5 minutes of discussion. They'd go back and interpret what they thought the consensus was. And their version of the consensus was much different than my version of the consensus, as well as other steering committee members.
Speaker 1: And we were told only towards the end of the process that we were merely advisors, just advisors. So that meant they could pick and choose the advice they wanted to take from the community. So to say that it was totally community driven is just a misrepresentation.
Speaker 6: Thank you. I can't remember your name, sir. The developer, Westfield. Mark, can you come up real quick? You mentioned something about if this doesn't go through or if you didn't get the financing, we'd have to deal with the current zoning.
Speaker 6: What exactly would the current zoning allow?
Speaker 9: The current zoning doesn't allow the community vision. It allows for its campus zoning currently today. It allows for educational uses. And you could put residential on there as well.
Speaker 6: So the current zoning allows the landmarks to stay in place.
Speaker 9: The zoning doesn't speak to landmarks, the zoning just speaks to uses, and the uses would be educational, campus or residential.
Speaker 6: And the greenspace would be preserved.
Speaker 9: The zoning doesn't speak to green spaces. It speaks to those uses, which, again, is educational or residential.
Speaker 6: Thank you. Yeah.
Speaker 1: You're done. Council. Councilman Hines.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Markovich, may I also ask some questions of you? Does anyone live on this property today?
Speaker 9: No, sir. There are actually no occupants on the property today.
Speaker 2: So does the campus have a use today?
Speaker 9: No. It is currently vacant and we have security monitoring the property from any more destruction that's been happening out there.
Speaker 2: Sorry. Any more destruction?
Speaker 9: Sure. We've had lots of vandalism since we've on the property and where we're forced to put 20, 24 seven security on it to prevent any more damage from happening.
Speaker 2: Okay. When was the last time this location was activated?
Speaker 9: I believe the last classes were in 2017, if I remember. Right. Okay.
Speaker 2: Um, if no one buys a home, does that mean no one services these bonds?
Speaker 9: No, that's not true. Okay. Bonds can be serviced by any of the uses that will ultimately put on. Their bonds are repaid through the property taxes.
Speaker 2: Okay. If no one purchases property in this special district, then you would be holding the bonds and no one would be paying you that.
Speaker 9: Well, we wouldn't be holding those bonds. Those bonds would be sold on the market. And then we, as the owners of the property, would would ultimately be responsible for paying back the debt, for sure.
Speaker 2: Yeah, I guess the nature I guess part of my question is if you price yourself out of the market, you're the one who's screwed. I mean, I'm sorry. You're affected. Negatively affected. Is that.
Speaker 9: Fair? I mean, I suppose that could be a true statement.
Speaker 2: Okay. Do. So I'm. I'm new here. Do service plans change the zoning or. Or do you plan?
Speaker 9: No. Service plans don't do anything. In fact, only just because a service plan is approved. I can't put a shovel in the ground. I can't go out and sell bonds because I won't have infrastructure to build because I won't have a site plan that's approved.
Speaker 2: But word. Well I'm not on luti but council as a body is going to be discussing that tomorrow in committee. Is that correct.
Speaker 9: Tomorrow in your land use committee. Those that are on it will be discussing the area plan. No, not a site plan. Just the area plan.
Speaker 2: Okay. Can you tell me about the rehabilitation that's necessary? Is there? I think I recall there being asbestos in the in the buildings. I mean, is there I want to also say that I recall a like a number of $63 million or I don't know, maybe I just pulled that out of thin air.
Speaker 2: It is late, after all, but there's a significant investment required for anyone to take this property or this campus. Is that correct?
Speaker 9: Yeah, absolutely. Actually, you may or may not remember, but Metro State did look at actually acquiring the property when it was closing down, before it was being considered a sold to a developer. One of the reasons why Metro State decided not to purchase it was because of the cost of putting in the necessary infrastructure and updating the
Speaker 9: buildings to a standard that they thought that they needed.
Speaker 2: Was that they were offered to buy it for dollars or something. Right. There's a I.
Speaker 9: Can't speak as a matter of factly on that. There might be others in the room that could speak to that. But I do believe it was economic. And maybe I can someone else can clarify.
Speaker 2: Okay. I'm curious about voting rights for residents. It's been mentioned a couple of times about how the voting rights are given to a management district in them and that no one, no residents get to be to participate in that management district.
Speaker 2: Can you tell me about. If I were to buy a home or where to purchase property in the district, what would I somehow be precluded from voting?
Speaker 9: That's a great question. And just because it's a very technical question, if that's okay with you, I'd like Megan to answer it. Sure.
Speaker 6: So relative to the district structure and the coordinating or managing district in taxing district structure, the and stepping back a little bit the reason for so many districts in this circumstance and relative to developments like this, we do have a unique circumstance where this is going to be a multi use development.
Speaker 6: We're going to have commercial users, retail users, residential users in order to recognize that and the potential for differing needs and interests in the future. That's why we have so many different taxing districts proposed, because it's likely that commercial owners will be interested in other things than single family residential owners.
Speaker 6: And we want the opportunity to recognize that in the future the relationship between the districts will be recognized, obviously not only in the service plan, but contractually through intergovernmental arrangements. And those intergovernmental arrangements between those districts say essentially in the beginning we need some efficiency because some of the infrastructure that's going to be installed obviously is going
Speaker 6: to be community wide infrastructure. So the coordinating district is going to assist with that as the property builds out and the uses are finally determined through the zoning and ultimate site development plan approval processes, property will be included in the appropriate and requisite district.
Speaker 6: Agreements will be entered into whereby in each district there will be a board of directors that can be represented, will be represented by constituents of that district. So each of those districts will have their own board that can be filled with constituents of that requisite district.
Speaker 6: The agreements that are entered into these days have provisions and recognize that interests change over time. So they're determinable and ultimately if one does, if a district. So we have all of these districts are a party and one residential district determines that they want more control over their own destiny, not as a part of the larger group
Speaker 6: , but they say we can do this more efficiently ourselves and we'd like a little bit more control rather than being part of the larger group. The agreements and their position in them are terminal so they can control their operations.
Speaker 6: Now, to the extent there is existing debt outstanding that they've agreed to pay, that obviously can't go away. But to the extent they want to make future decisions and have a hard time in doing that, the agreements do allow for that.
Speaker 6: So it's really a structure to recognize the need to have the development be developed in an efficient, coordinated manner. But it also recognizes that things change over time.
Speaker 2: Okay. So I haven't run a metropolitan district or six. I have in addition to being on city council, I have the lovely opportunity to be on the board of my HRA. And if we want to change that and I do that for free, I'm crazy.
Speaker 2: If we want to change something in our governing documents or declarations or bylaws, we have to get 75% of all homeowners to agree to that, which is we can't find 20% to get quorum. So getting 75% is effective.
Speaker 2: I mean, it's it's it's a it's a percentage, but it is effectively impossible is I want to I don't know how you can really as an attorney say it's effectively impossible. But I want to ask this question anyway, because it seems like the that's the nature of what I've heard a couple of people say tonight is that
Speaker 2: it would be effectively impossible for someone in this property to to do it, you know, do it, do their own thing. There would be. Effectively required by the developers into perpetuity to do whatever the developers want. Do you have any thoughts or comments on that?
Speaker 6: Well, what I can say is those requirements and provisions relative to highways don't apply to districts. So again, we're purely in the local government statutes. So the requirements relative to constituents or electors getting positions on the board, not until your 75% built out or frankly, I don't even know what the requirements are because it is factual and
Speaker 6: statutorily required that once you are an elector, once you have those interests we've discussed before, you're eligible to be a board member irrespective of what's happening in the development. If you live within the boundaries of the district, you're a resident of what I said.
Speaker 6: So those provisions don't apply to these districts.
Speaker 2: Okay. So what is there? I'm having trouble reading my own writing. Will there be an H away as well? Potentially. Or is that like, oh, I see what I was. Well, these properties have fees. So in addition to servicing will there the the bond and property taxes, will they also have fees?
Speaker 9: You know, at the end of the day, that that actual answer isn't known for 100% certain, but the thought process was we wouldn't need one because the infrastructure would be in. And then the district, through the maintenance and operations mills, would be able to take care of what the FHA would normally take care of.
Speaker 2: Oh, there was a comment earlier about putting the cart before the horse. Do you have any comment on are we putting the cart before the horse? And if so, why?
Speaker 9: I think in a perfect world, Councilman Hines, we would have the area plan and a lot of things, you know, done already. Unfortunately, the way the statutes written, it requires, you know, elections. And as you know, at the state level, there's only certain times of the year when that's allowable.
Speaker 9: So if we were to and we worked on the area plan as quickly as we could, understanding that when we started and we bought the property, we immediately, you know, started working with the city on how to do a rezoning.
Speaker 9: And if we would have just gone forward with a straight rezoning without doing a small area plan and we could have potentially of gotten community, community consensus, you know, through just a rezoning, normal process rather than doing an area plan.
Speaker 9: You know, we could have had an area plan approved already by now, hypothetically, you know, and then we could be sitting in front of you today with this metro district. You know, getting this approved in the car wouldn't be in front of the horse.
Speaker 9: What we tried to do is the right thing on this project and completely hit the pause button for over a year. I mean, we bought the property in July of 2018 and we've been working, you know, as closely as possible with the community.
Speaker 9: So in a perfect world, would it be nice, you know? But at the same token, I think we have community consensus. This service plan, as has been said on more than one occasion tonight, doesn't approve any zoning. All it does is put the tool, so to speak, in the toolbox so we can deliver what the community is
Speaker 9: asking for.
Speaker 2: Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 8: Thank you, Mr. President. Let me start with you first, Mark, if you don't mind coming back up.
Speaker 9: No problem.
Speaker 8: Do you all plan to be a master developer or do you plan to own many of the structures that.
Speaker 6: Both.
Speaker 8: Existing structures, but any of the new ones that will be built on the site as well?
Speaker 9: Yeah, that's a great question. And we've been asked that question a lot of times. I can tell you what we do, what we do well, and I know what we don't do. We are not a residential home builder.
Speaker 9: So as it relates to the street residential, we wouldn't be doing that. But when we start talking about the mixed use commercial aspects of the property, there is a high likelihood that we will be developing those ourselves.
Speaker 8: And we continue to own.
Speaker 9: This structure is possible for sure.
Speaker 8: Okay. Tell me a little bit about the open space. And I don't remember. What's the total number of acres on this site? 70, 70 acres. So how much of that will be open space?
Speaker 9: You know, at this point in time, I can tell you that the city requirement is 10%. I can tell you that with site planning that we are considering for the the project it's in, it's in far excess of the 10% at the end of the day.
Speaker 9: And I'm going to stand here and promise you that it's 20%. I'm not going to do that. But I am going to tell you it's going to be well north of 10%.
Speaker 8: So within the Metro District Service plan, does that include maintenance of the open space?
Speaker 9: Sure does.
Speaker 8: Okay. And is that sort of built into the project over the term of the debt being collected?
Speaker 9: Two different topics. The debt being collected and repaid is for the initial bonds that are issued. That's the 50 mills. Right. The operation and maintenance is up to and again, that's up to the 50 mills. The operation and maintenance is up to the 15 mills.
Speaker 9: And until we have a final plan, as far as what it is that we're going to be completing out there, it's hard to say exactly what that what the mills are going to be as far as the operation and maintenance.
Speaker 9: And it also depends on what kind of open spaces there are, you know, fallow grass, you know, has a different cost, you know, versus, you know, hardscape, you know, plazas as an example.
Speaker 8: So has there been discussion with the City Parks Department about that open space eventually being turned over to the city to be a city park? Or is that intended to be under the control and ownership of the entire development?
Speaker 9: Sure. Great question. In there having conversations that we've had with the Parks Department, we are also going through the LDR process just starting as well. Initial conversations with the Parks Department are the they don't have the capacity or the financial wherewithal to manage and operate the parks.
Speaker 9: So they think the best hands for the parks operations would be within the district.
Speaker 8: For you to continue to control it.
Speaker 9: The district to control it.
Speaker 8: Okay. I guess that's what I mean when I say you all as opposed to the city or the department. Okay. So housing is a big part of the discussion and affordable housing has been part of that commitment. Has there been any discussion about the phasing of that?
Speaker 9: Absolutely. And I'm proud about this, actually. One of the things that I can tell you is that we heard loud and clear from the community that affordable housing was important. We've heard from Denver that affordable housing is important.
Speaker 9: We also heard that, as some people have mentioned tonight, that some of the historic preservation is very important. There's a particular building on campus. PANCRAS The Hall, which was built in 1929, which was a dormitory. When you talk to the building, it actually wants to continue to be residential.
Speaker 9: Clearly, if you are saving a building, you're not going to move the building. And if we're talking about, you know, doing affordable housing as an important element, community benefit, we saw no reason why we shouldn't just tell everybody that pancreas a hall is going to be an affordable housing project.
Speaker 9: In fact, we are very proud of what we're what's transpiring there. It will be 68 units, I believe, of the 30 to 80% AMI. There are three bedrooms there. I believe there's 17, three bedrooms that are going to be inside of that project as well.
Speaker 8: And is that the only affordable housing or will there be more than that? I think you know.
Speaker 9: I think you know the answer to that question. But I will answer it for, you know.
Speaker 8: Okay. Let me move on to my next couple of questions and I wanted to ask. Let me ask you this question and I'll call someone else up. So the expectation is that we're talking about 97 mils total on on the entire project.
Speaker 9: Right. 90.
Speaker 8: 90. Okay. I don't know where I got 97. Maybe I was looking at the 96.9 on the cost.
Speaker 9: And that's an up to number. Sorry to interrupt.
Speaker 8: I guess what I'm trying to get at is. The long term existence of the metro districts. I know. Not long ago there were some changes at the state legislature that pretty much allows them to exist in perpetuity. And I.
Speaker 8: I don't know if the expectation is that they will exist beyond the time frame of paying back the debt. So how how is that how are you looking at structuring this in terms of the the long term existence of the metro districts?
Speaker 9: There's two questions there, actually. There's one question as it relates to the debt. Right. And then there's the other question that relates to the operations and maintenance. And then actually a third question as it relates to the programing of that 90 mills that you're referring to, 20 of those mills are being held aside for the opportunity to
Speaker 9: use them for programing, whereas 15 mills are being used potentially for the opportunity for maintenance and operations, and then the 50 mills would be used for up to 50 mills be used for the debt services. Once the bonds are retired, it would be up to the board to make a decision on whether or not they would want
Speaker 9: to issue new debt. Maybe there might be a a rec center or something that they would want to build as a public amenity. And that could be an opportunity.
Speaker 8: So because these operate like a independent unit of government within the city and county of Denver, they can continue to issue debt after that.
Speaker 9: I mean, I believe that that is a true statement. And I look at my attorney to nod yes. Yup. And she nodded. Yes.
Speaker 8: Okay. So. If we set limits at 50 mills, what would what would be compromised in the in the project.
Speaker 9: If we set it at 50 mils. Oh, meaning that 50 total for debt service operation and maintenance and for programing.
Speaker 8: Yeah.
Speaker 9: Well, I mean, it just, you know, whittles away tools in the toolbox, you know, as it relates to, you know, bringing forward to southwest Denver, a place I don't know if it's sustainable or not. I can't really I haven't explored that model.
Speaker 9: We were looking for the optimistic side that we would be able to move forward, you know, with a tool in our toolbox that can be fully utilized.
Speaker 8: So the hope and expectation is that if you get the total 90 miles. If I'm hearing you correctly, that's what allows you to be able to meet the community benefits and the commitments that were made to the community through the planning process.
Speaker 9: No, that's actually not what I said. Of the 90 mills, only 50 mills, up to 50 mills that can be utilized for debt services, for infrastructure installation. The other 40 mills, which goes to 15 for operations and 20 for programing and five to the regional mills, you know, could be determined otherwise.
Speaker 8: Okay. Let me just look to see if I have one last question here. I guess I just want to ask her attorney. So what's what's the incentive for any of the districts to expire after the debt is paid?
Speaker 8: Or is there?
Speaker 12: So. Kirsten Crawford, legislative counsel and I'm here with Dianne Feinstein, who's really more of the special districts expert. But I just want to make a couple comments because there's been a lot.
Speaker 10: Of.
Speaker 12: We've we've jumped around a lot tonight in I think so many things probably needs and deserve more explanation. And the first thing I want to just confirm is that both with when it comes to the Urban Renewal Authority and to the special districts under Title 32, these are crazy governmental entities.
Speaker 12: They have certain powers. They're separate and different.
Speaker 10: From.
Speaker 12: A home rule municipality. And their powers are very limited. So special districts have enumerated in their statutes certain powers. There is absolutely credibility to the debate that has been ongoing for for many years, not just here tonight at council about the virtues and the pros and cons of special districts.
Speaker 12: But I want council to understand that that is a debate that has to occur at the state level. And the only reason this comes to council tonight is for approval of a service plan. And it's a pretty narrow opportunity to council for council to approve or not approve the service plan with respect to incentive to retire the
Speaker 12: debt.
Speaker 10: I don't know, Joann, if you feel like you can answer that from a legal perspective.
Speaker 12: But the one thing that I want to just say with respect to Councilwoman Ortega's question is that any additional debt that would be sought after.
Speaker 10: Have would have to.
Speaker 12: Go out for an additional vote.
Speaker 8: But would that have to come back to this body? They would just go. Would it have to come back to this body to be approved, to be put on the ballot to go out to a vote?
Speaker 10: It depends. Okay.
Speaker 8: Clarify that.
Speaker 10: Debt is. Well, I think you you asked and said a couple of things. What I was going to address initially you were talking about the termination of a metro district that they are they do have a perpetual existence, just like any municipal entity.
Speaker 10: And it is to some extent, it's up to the board of directors at that time to say, do we want to continue or do we want to, you know, do we want to try and terminate the. It's not a good word, but and the special district, number one, they would need to be debt free to be able
Speaker 10: to shut down essentially or make other arrangements to retire the debt. But the debt is not the only reason for the special districts, in my view. As Megan Becker was saying that in and as Mark said, they will have lots of maintenance responsibilities and that is an ongoing function.
Speaker 10: And is Kirsten was saying that. I mean, this ties into another question that came up earlier. I think that if the district is really going to change dramatically, it is considered a major modification in any metropolitan district within the city and county of Denver would have to come back to city council to.
Speaker 10: Really change your alter the service plan in terms of what they can do and the service plans that that we have approved recently talk about a maximum mill levy and the election would cover the maximum amount of debt.
Speaker 10: So whether they could issue debt later depends on two factors. One, the length of time and I'm not the bond financing expert, but the authorization will expire at some point in time. So that's one issue. And the other one would be the amount has the maximum been issued.
Speaker 10: And if that was the case, then the district would have to go to an election of its. Eligible electors if they want to try and issue additional debt.
Speaker 8: So join in your experience, at what point in time does the city in these districts begin to assume responsibility for city services? Trash pickup. Street sweeping, snow removal, that kind of stuff.
Speaker 10: Well. My understanding is that the metro districts typically provide a higher level of service in certain areas than city services. I don't think it's necessarily a replacement for city services and perhaps I don't know Megan or Mark, you.
Speaker 8: Mark, you want to help out with this one?
Speaker 4: I might be able to help out a little bit on this one. You know, as you think about like city services, there's the service services aspect. And then there's also one of the responsibilities of the district is to provide that infrastructure, like the roads and the sewers and the waterlines.
Speaker 4: And each of those have a warranty period based on each jurisdiction. And each of those responsibilities sometimes is 2 to 3 years. And then when they get after the warranty period, it's gone by and they've built it to the standards of each of those jurisdictions.
Speaker 4: They get then transferred over to like, say, the city for the roads or Denver water for the water pipes. And at that point, then those infrastructure pieces become a part of that organization's maintenance. But, I mean, we look at the OEM pieces of the of the metropolitan district.
Speaker 4: What we're looking at is like common area maintenance is like parks, open spaces, not necessarily the roads anymore. As like all the other public entities that manage the roads or the water lines take on that responsibility. So the 15 mills of our operations and maintenance would really be part of the what I'll call common area maintenance and
Speaker 4: even sometimes replace as a highway style activities.
Speaker 8: So just to be clear, though. Once the roads are are constructed. Is it assumed then that those are city streets and the city is responsible for snow removal? Street sweeping, you know, trash pickup, all those all those services that are provided to every other neighborhood across the city.
Speaker 4: Sure. The the answer is, of course, it depends. The what if the city like streets, for instance, if the streets are built to the city standards, then yes, they would be after a warranty period, they would be handed over to the city and we would be doing all the snow removal and replacement of any potholes or patching
Speaker 4: of potholes or problems with the roads. But if they were not built to those city standards, like sometimes they're just a little narrower than what we would normally accept as a city street. They were staying there. The it's the streets that do not meet the city's standards would be retained by the metropolitan district and it would be
Speaker 4: a metropolitan district responsibility for operations.
Speaker 8: So in our review and approval of these districts, as are brought forward to us, are we not dictating certain standards that we expect? I mean, if the streets are too narrow in any of these developments, you want to make sure your, you know, emergency vehicles can get through there.
Speaker 4: Sure. I that you do want to have safety for everyone and the standards are important. But the metropolitan district itself is a financing tool, and the standards for the streets and whatnot are not dictated in the metropolitan district.
Speaker 10: Where is that done?
Speaker 4: Go ahead.
Speaker 3: Is it?
Speaker 9: Yeah. So let me explain further. The the roads and the standards that the roads are built to are approved in the site plan of the project. They're I think what Andrew was trying to explain is that there could be some roads, especially at Loreto, where we're trying to create some of these public places that may be unique
Speaker 9: and unique. What is an example of that? Like, for an example, there could be a street that doesn't have a curb. Why would you want to have a street without a curb? So you could close the street down and you can make it more of a festival street.
Speaker 9: The city may not want to have that particular street that wouldn't impact, you know, the flow of traffic on the site. But it might be a special place, you know, on the property. What Andrew was explaining is if that case were to exist, it would still have to meet standards as it relates to emergency type things.
Speaker 9: But the district could own them.
Speaker 11: Okay.
Speaker 6: All right. That was a helpful explanation.
Speaker 8: Thank you. Thank you. I have no further questions.
Speaker 1: Thank you, counsel. All right. A few people up for a few follow ups. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: Thanks for has just had a few follow ups for me. Let me start with Megan. When Mr. Henderson was talking about the experience, etc., and then his other research, you were nodding your head this way quite a bit and I wanted to find out why was that?
Speaker 4: What were you taking issue with?
Speaker 6: I think what I want to make sure that everyone understands and it's, you know, based upon some of the comments of your attorneys, these districts are quasi governmental entities. So there is transparency, there is accountability. We have to follow the statutes.
Speaker 6: We have to follow the Constitution. We have to follow the election laws. Everything is publicly available. And can I say that there haven't been circumstances in the state of Colorado that have not followed all those rules? There have been.
Speaker 6: But it's absolutely true that these districts must follow all of those open records, open meetings, transparency. So there is accountability. There is transparency. And it's our intent and our goal to ensure that that does happen, not only in accordance with statute, but in accordance with what the community desires.
Speaker 6: So. Okay.
Speaker 4: Andrew, just to follow up on that, real briefly, have any of the metro districts in Denver had those issues? Lack of transparency, fraud, abuse. I imagine I'd like to say no, but I'm sure at that point that you don't know they would come up with one, but I'm not aware of one.
Speaker 4: All right, Mark, during the area planning process, the use of metropolitan district was always on the table from the very first draft, was it not?
Speaker 9: Yeah. If you look at the first draft of the area plan that came out in June, one of the tools that was noted, I don't remember what page, but there's a page in there that talk specifically about metro top metropolitan districts as a financing tool.
Speaker 9: It was in the first draft and in the second draft.
Speaker 4: Okay. And then the planning board draft is absolute third draft. And it's you had your staff at every meeting. And the the area plan steering committee is not a site planning committee.
Speaker 9: That is correct. It is absolutely the site plan.
Speaker 4: So when the service plan comes out for the metro district and it implements pretty closely the guidance you were hearing from the community, what you know, what would you say about that?
Speaker 9: I think my team did a good job listening.
Speaker 4: Okay. Can you are there any areas where you where you might have deviated from the guidance? I didn't see any myself. And probably unfair to ask you, but.
Speaker 9: No. I mean, I think the area plan the area plan is a document that sets up the visioning statement for what the property wants to be.
Speaker 4: But it's not a site.
Speaker 9: Plan, not a site plan, you know, inside of the service plan. We are required to put as attachments, illustrations to what, what, what, what, what the project is going to be. And that's simply what's in there are illustrations.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Dr. Aguilar, could I ask you a couple of questions? As the head of the Neighborhood Equity and Stabilization Team, I've heard it said that metro districts are absolutely the worst way to do a project like this, with the exception of all the other ways of doing it, because they all cost money and they all have
Speaker 4: their impacts. And from the southwest, Denver is pretty high on our inequity index or pretty low on the equity index would be the proper way to say what concerns do you have about the financing here and the potential impacts that the mill levy might have on affordability and on one on the development of the site, if any
Speaker 10: ? I actually am more concerned if we don't pass this. I think it was alluded to here this year because.
Speaker 4: Six 0 million six.
Speaker 10: $0 million right.
Speaker 4: Take Tokyo was going to donate.
Speaker 10: Yes.
Speaker 4: The property to and.
Speaker 10: They could not afford the money to make it usable because of the asbestos and the lack of wiring in it. And I in the interest of full disclosure, my property is across the road from the right of heights.
Speaker 10: And when Jeff Romaine was selected economists, he would torment me by saying they're never going to be able to afford to fix that and they'll be living across in a by a blighted, vandalize piece of property. Really. And and so I'm hoping you will prove him wrong.
Speaker 10: But but it is beautiful. And there's a lot of open space. And I'm very excited about the vision of preserving the quadrangle. I think it's ambitious to try and preserve that theater, although like the whole community, I would love it.
Speaker 10: I, I think we're in a little bit of a catch 22 because the plan as is being developed really limits heights and limits density. And without that, I don't know how you pay for it. So I'm a little concerned about that.
Speaker 10: But I think that what's being proposed is the the best we can expect for this level. Mark has asked sometimes me and Melissa has had from housing about what kind of housing will expect from him for affordability. And we've warned him more than he'd like to give us.
Speaker 10: And but I think that he listens very well to the people there who really wanted a parkway facing the grand entrance. He really wanted Dartmouth not to go all the way through. Who really wanted the quadrangle preserved? He's working with his district in hopes of preserving the theater.
Speaker 10: I have my concerns about whether that's still going to be possible, even though, of course, I would love to.
Speaker 4: Have you toured the theater with Kimberly Desmond as well.
Speaker 10: I. As well there because I saw it as a potential neighborhood equity initiative because we don't have that level of arts in southwest Denver. And there's actually a lot of open space on the lower level. And I thought it could be a great nonprofit space.
Speaker 10: But the financial evaluation that you had done came back pretty daunting without even considering that it needed a new roof and you needed parking for it. And so so I have in my heart a line in myself to the possibility we won't have that.
Speaker 10: But I'd love to not have a blighted area there, and I'd love to see that administrative building being used again because it's really gorgeous.
Speaker 4: Okay, I'll take this opportunity then to remind everybody in case the mayor is still up and watching that. At the last community meeting, Mayor Hancock made the announcement that we will save the theater. So I asked him at my next occasion, okay, how do you plan to do that?
Speaker 4: So we'll find out.
Speaker 10: And selfishly, I'd love to see that, but I. I would like to see us invest in more affordable housing there. I mean, we have to pick priorities. We don't have enough money for everything. And it's a beautiful opportunity.
Speaker 10: And I do want to apologize. So we we were involved in trying to make that Latino town hall happen and the mayor's office fired. We went to Southwest Community Coalition and talked about it. And Alves Rubio, who is our West Denver neighborhood representative, went out and met with his contacts in the area and we still got really
Speaker 10: poor attendance. And it was really quite a humbling experience to think about what is. There was childcare. There was food. It was held completely in Spanish and we still could not get the community to come out. And so I apologize.
Speaker 10: We did make an effort to have the Latino community in particular there.
Speaker 11: Do you recall that successful recall.
Speaker 4: Senator, that way or. Dr.. What I call what do I call you now?
Speaker 11: I mean.
Speaker 4: Do you do you recall also that our DPS representative yeah, we did backpack fliers from college view and.
Speaker 10: We did we sent local fliers home, we did everything we could. And it was really unfortunate that we just could not get the population to come out for this.
Speaker 4: Okay. And it was held offsite. It was held.
Speaker 10: It all started. All Saints Church. Yeah. You went for the Catholic route. It's. That didn't work.
Speaker 11: All right. Thank you, friend. That's all.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Flynn. All right. I'm not seeing anybody in the queue. Still on questions, so I'm going to go ahead and close. This public hearing for Kels was 745 is closed and we're moving to comments by members of council.
Speaker 1: Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: Thanks, Mr. President. Just to quickly repeat what I said during the questioning earlier, that metro districts are often remarked to be the absolute worst vehicle for doing things like this except for all the others. And it's a hard choice to make.
Speaker 4: The fact is the city doesn't go in any longer. And build roads for developers. We don't build sewers and water and drainage. We don't do any of that anymore. We used to two decades ago, I think the first special district I became familiar with when I moved to Denver almost 40 years ago was one that was in
Speaker 4: place for 60 years and and built one of the most well-known public infrastructure projects that was privately owned. And that was the Moffitt Tunnel District. And they taxed the homes and businesses and property of of thousands of residents from what was then Denver at the time, all the way up through Jefferson, Boulder, Grand, all the way, I
Speaker 4: believe, to Craig to Moffat County. And and that was that's now owned by Union Pacific. So there's a long history of successful use of special districts as a as a vehicle for accomplishing what private financing and what other methods of getting that infrastructure done is simply worse than a worse option than what we're looking at tonight.
Speaker 4: This is an opportunity to get something done right. Not only in southwest Denver, but in the city. We have an iconic. Site. It is among the highest points in the chart, the highest point in a city. But it's it's darn close to it.
Speaker 4: And and this is a chance that to build something that in 50 years through the use of this vehicle and others, because this doesn't provide enough capacity to build something that when someone comes here 50 years from now, they will know that this was a campus.
Speaker 4: This is a different place. This could be southwest Denver's living room or family room. And we want to make sure that it's done right. We want to make sure that the streets, the public works understands that this is going to be a place we want people to come to and not pass through.
Speaker 4: We don't want it to be porous. We don't want Dartmouth to go through and siphon traffic into the neighborhoods off of off of Federal Boulevard, because this is a campus and we want it to remain a campus. It's a sacred site, if I can even use that word, as Sister Mary Nell said about the cemetery, I would
Speaker 4: apply that to the entire campus because for almost 130 years, when Sister Pan Croatia first designated that site as the future home of an extension of Saint Mary's Academy, it's it's been a revered site in southwest Denver. Not the oldest fort Logan beats it by a few years.
Speaker 4: But this is our chance to get it right. And this is. Probably the worst vehicle to do it other than all the others. And so I asked my colleagues to consider that, to consider the track record in Denver of special districts being successful and and vote to approve this tonight.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Flynn. Are there any other comments? All right, I am going to. I'm sorry, sir. You can take a step outside, or you can wait for us to deliver it. So, sir. I'm asking you to please stop or to take your comments outside.
Speaker 1: We have closed the comment period and now we're deliberating.
Speaker 11: On campaign funds should recuse themselves from this trade.
Speaker 1: All right. So, you know, other comments, I will finish this out before we vote and just say, first of all, thank you to Councilman Flynn. You know, this is right at the edge of my district, technically in Councilman Flynn's district, but a place that is very, very near and dear to me.
Speaker 1: As you heard earlier, my mother is what brought her to Colorado was to go to school here. My parents celebrated 50 years of being married this year in January. And we went driving through what is a very sad campus right now because there is no use, I mean, other than people throwing rocks through windows and breaking things
Speaker 1: because we have a developer who didn't charge through and say, I'm going to go build, I'm going to go build. But I will take a pause to meet with community and understand what the community wants and develop that.
Speaker 1: But we took a drive through to, you know, got to hear my dad talk about those are the steps where I fell in love with your mother. And, you know, my mom lived in pancreas a hall. And to hear plans for that building, you know, not the historic of our name, the historic landmarked administration building, but plans
Speaker 1: to retain that and bring people back to living there. And all my mother's stories about party line phone, only one phone for the whole dorm. And you had to wait in line to call home the history of that area.
Speaker 1: And, you know, I, I know that we're just talking about the metro districts. I'm not trying not get to astray, but also my constituents on my side. You know, again, college view, literally, a neighborhood is named for its view of the college.
Speaker 1: And I'm Claire Harris, also a graduate of Loretto, who was probably the most skeptical person in the city when this site was purchased and walked out of this community process. As one of the staunchest advocates to say, okay, hey, we had a voice at the table.
Speaker 1: Now go find a way to deliver on this dream and vision. And this is a tool, you know, to get us there and to deliver on something that is, you know, not just another development. It is a special place, a sacred place for our city.
Speaker 1: And so I will also be supporting this site. And I want to say thank you to everyone who put the work in to try and get this right, despite the fact that it has, you know, been hard to watch that site sit and see the things that people do and you don't have any activation on it.
Speaker 1: But I think we're getting closer to a day where we can all be very proud of of what's here. So with that, Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 3: Flynn.
Speaker 4: Hi.
Speaker 3: Black. I see. Tobacco. No. Gilmore, I.
Speaker 11: Herndon, I.
Speaker 3: Hines.
Speaker 2: I.
Speaker 1: Cashman by.
Speaker 3: Kenny Ortega.
Speaker 8: I. And I just want to say a quick thank you all for your patience and sitting through this long night.
Speaker 3: Sandoval. Sawyer. I. Torres. I. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I. Madam Secretary, please trust voting in those results.
Speaker 3: One 911 eight.
Speaker 1: 111 nine Constable 745 has passed and yes, thank you, Councilman Ortega. Thank you all for sticking it out on this late night, seeing no other business before this body. This meeting is adjourned.

Speaker 1: I. Madam Secretary, please close the voting. Announce the results. 3939 as Resolution 882 has been adopted. I will ask that if you are not sitting around for the rest of our meeting, we do have a packed agenda. So if you could Exodus quietly as possible and leave those doors closed as you get into the hallway so that
Speaker 1: we can move right along. If you're watching in overflow and you came for something other than what we just voted on, there is lots of room open in chambers now. And so you're invited to come join us in chambers.
Speaker 1: Now, Madam Secretary, if you could please put the next item on our screens. And Councilman Hines, will you please put Bill seven, seven, six on the floor? Councilman Hines. Oh. Could you put seven, seven, six on the floor, please?
Speaker 2: I guess. Mr. President, I move seven, seven, six for adoption.
Speaker 1: I budget. This one's ordered published.
Speaker 2: If I. You know what? I want it published.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. It has been moved and seconded. Councilman Herndon, you have a motion to postpone. Why don't you go ahead with your motion?
Speaker 5: Yes. Thank you, Mr. President. I move the council bill 19 0776 be postponed to Monday, September 23rd, 2019.
Speaker 1: All right. We have a move and a second, Madam Secretary, on that motion. We good to go. Okay. So, comments by members of council. Councilman Herndon?
Speaker 5: Yes. Thank you, Mr. President. I assumed everyone was in chambers about this vacation. I'm just kidding. So vacations are rather mundane topics where adjacent property owners have the opportunity to take right of way that's next to their processed process.
Speaker 5: If the city does not deem it has a city use and the rather mundane, as I said, and this is the first opportunity that came in to the full council when we heard this two weeks ago. But to ensure two interesting things happen and when I as I have the ability, the honor of chairing land use and
Speaker 5: transportation and infrastructure. First was a lot of my colleagues had concerns about the overall vacation process in regards to why we are beholden to certain rules. And I wanted my colleagues to know we couldn't have a full conversation that night.
Speaker 5: That day, excuse me, but we will be bringing vacations back to the council for a full discussion. So I wanted to make sure I put that on your radar so that you have the ability to come and learn more about that.
Speaker 5: If there's a will of this council to even ask the question, should we have vacations at all? Because that question came up. But more specifically to the vacation that hand that's before us. During that time, council members had some serious concerns about the size of the vacation that was moving forward, the community concerns about how what is
Speaker 5: the currently used for right now. And they brought those concerns up during the committee that I thought was that were very well said. Well, over the course of the two weeks, the applicant moving forward about the vacation heard some of the concerns that council and the community had and is requesting a four week postponement because they would
Speaker 5: like to revisit their plans should this vacation go through. And so I believe that since the applicant hearing what concerns council members have community and wants to revisit their plans for week. The four week postponement certainly seems appropriate.
Speaker 5: And just to let my colleagues know the postponement in no way beholden to them to supporting the vacation, that's absolutely not the case and just allows the applicant to have more conversations with the community and revisit that. So I, I would encourage my colleagues to support this four week postponement.
Speaker 5: And then we'll have an opportunity to look at the merits of the updated vacation on September 23rd. Thank you, President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Herndon, Councilman Hines.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. Procedural question for week postponement, that is. And I know that sometimes we have 30 days to vote where it's automatically adopted. I just want to make sure that we still have the opportunity to deliberate and vote as we would today.
Speaker 1: Yeah, I will defer to our legal counsel, but since this is not a contract certification, I don't believe that is bound by any shot clock.
Speaker 12: Kirsten Crawford Legislative.
Speaker 10: Council. And that's correct.
Speaker 1: So, yes, we retain all rates.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Ms.. Crawford. And thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. Any other questions or comments before we vote on the postponement? All right. None. Madam Secretary, roll call on the postponement.
Speaker 5: Herndon I.
Speaker 3: Black. I see tobacco I. Flynn I. Gilmer I.
Speaker 2: Hinds High.
Speaker 3: Kashmere High. Kenny Ortega High. Sandoval, I. Sawyer, I. Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Hi, Madam Secretary. Please close the voting. Announce the results.
Speaker 3: 13 eyes.
Speaker 1: 13 eyes. Bill seven. Seven six has been postponed to September 23rd. Madam Secretary, will you please put the next item on our screens? And, Councilman Hines, will you please vote council vote 803 on the floor.

Speaker 1: 13 eyes. Bill seven. Seven six has been postponed to September 23rd. Madam Secretary, will you please put the next item on our screens? And, Councilman Hines, will you please vote council vote 803 on the floor.
Speaker 2: Mr. President, I move that council bill 803 be taken out of order.
Speaker 1: Thank you. It has been moved and seconded. This one's mine. So I'm going to make some comments on 803 and 805 together, if that is if that works. But we'll vote on them separately. Thank you, Madam Secretary. So 803 and 805 are our climate bills that of that we have been working on?
Speaker 1: And you know, I just wanted to bring everybody up to speed. Today, we'll be asking for a postponement of these bills, one to June 1st and one to November 3rd. So we have been working hard on on addressing climate in the city and addressing the emergency, the crisis that we have for our planet, for our people, for
Speaker 1: our environment. And we were able to work with the administration and get to some areas of agreement. And so I want to read that in that where we're headed and why we're postponing that today, so that today we announce the the administration and the seven sponsors of this bill.
Speaker 1: But today, in conjunction, we'll work on the following. Establishing a new Office of Climate Action, Sustainability and Resiliency. That's one of the bills that we were taking up. And this office will be established by ordinance with the city council.
Speaker 1: We are going to work on it a little bit more with the administration and bring it back before October 31st. And it will be fully functional and stood up by July 1st of 2020. It will combine personnel from the existing Office of Sustainability and the Denver in the Denver Department of Public Health and Environment and also the
Speaker 1: Climate Team. And in addition to that, the mayor also has agreed to in the budget proposal that he brings forward. The city council proposed an additional $8 million in 2020 funding to expand efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Speaker 1: And we are jointly immediately launching a formal process to examine Denver's current climate work, identify gaps, analyze funding needs, and engage experts, interested stakeholders and a wide range of community members in a process to look at how do we tackle this?
Speaker 1: And it will conclude by the end of May 2020, giving this Council ample time to consider a referral to the ballot for November of 2020. And in conjunction with that will be delaying these bills since the beginning of working on this.
Speaker 1: And, you know, I want to say first and foremost, thank you to my colleagues who put their name on this bill and sponsored this and stood up and said, hey, this is really important and we need to do and we need to do hard work, but we need to do that hard work now.
Speaker 1: I also want to thank there are a lot of members from the resilient Denver team and also from the broader community who have honestly been pushing the city and pushing all of us to do better and to do more and to really put our money and our efforts where our mouth is not just stand up and say
Speaker 1: , hey, we are still committed to the Paris climate accord but continue to show slides where we are not on that glide path, but to actually engage in the tough conversations and the tough work to get us where we are aligned with all of the scientific standards that have come forward when it comes to climate change.
Speaker 1: And also, I want to thank, you know, all the stakeholders who pushed back and said, hey, this process is moving really fast. We get the urgency, but we also want a seat at the table who promised to come and join that conversation over the coming months to work hard as we work together to tackle, you know, an
Speaker 1: issue that is unlike any that humankind has has faced. And so I really want to thank everyone for coming together in that. And and so the essence of what we're doing, what was important from the beginning was we needed to elevate this work.
Speaker 1: We needed to make sure that our climate team was well positioned within the city to be driving all of us as leaders to make sure that we're meeting these targets. And and so this new office where we were going to put our climate and sustainability efforts will do exactly that.
Speaker 1: We knew that we needed to take more aggressive action now and as soon as possible. And so the commitment to new dollars in the coming budget for 2020 are those dollars that come now and then. We need to really take a hard look and have tough conversations about how do we transform the way we live, the places
Speaker 1: where we work, the places where we play, the infrastructure of our transportation systems and how we cook food and have those tough conversations and come with a robust plan on how we're going to get there and how we're going to fund that.
Speaker 1: And this allows us the time to do that while still taking aggressive new steps with new money to take action now and really bring everyone together. So to be back and with us with proposals and solutions coming forward.
Speaker 1: So I really wanted to thank everyone. And again, we'll be pushing out the first bill. 803 We will be postponing until June. First, because again, the commitment is that we will have a stakeholder process to come forward with these solutions and these ideas that will wrap by the end of May.
Speaker 1: And so leaving this on the table again sends the message that we up here are committed to solving this and to finding the funding that we need to solve this. And we're going to engage in this stakeholder process with this, knowing that this is not just a fake deadline, this is a real deadline that this bill will
Speaker 1: be coming back. And similarly, with the commitment to get this an ordinance to for this council to vote on, for this new office moving the bill that proposes the office in 805 to November 3rd, because we have a commitment, a shared commitment between us and the administration to do that hard work and get that in front of
Speaker 1: council by October 31st. So these allow us to continue to push for the change that we need. So I see a lot of people lining up to talk. And again, feel free to talk about 803 and 805 as we did last time.
Speaker 1: But we will vote on them separately on the motions to delay. Councilman Hines.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I when I ran, I talked about the planet. I talked about how my mom's a hippie and how I grew up around the five national forests and rural East Texas. And it feels really weird for me to live in District ten, by the way.
Speaker 2: Perfect ten is perfect, after all. But it's really it's interesting for me where I came from and being so connected to nature and then where I am now living in a condominium, high rise, having a view of another condominium.
Speaker 2: High rise, well, an apartment high rise, but whatever. Climate change is real. I've said that many times. I said that the first day I was here. We got inaugurated on July 15th. That night, the I think the first thing I said was climate change is real.
Speaker 2: And I am committed to working with with everyone who is willing to to join the coalition to make sure that we make bold, meaningful steps now. And and I'm I'm glad that there that we can work with the executive branch and the mayors.
Speaker 2: So thank you. Please relay the the excitement of working together with the third floor. And and and, you know, the rest of the administration. I'm. This isn't the end. So we're certainly going to work it with, you know, hand in hand with the administration in this stakeholder group.
Speaker 2: But we need to keep pushing. And and this isn't this isn't it? We're going to keep going. So thank you for coming here tonight. Resilient Denver. Thank you. For all of those who care about climate change. And and thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Hines. Councilman mechanic.
Speaker 12: Thank you, Mr. President. I have a quick question about the timing. It's my understanding that the agreed upon date to kind of report back is May. And then if this motion to defer is only till June 1st, it doesn't allow much time for the council process and interaction before you kind of have to make a decision on
Speaker 12: this one. We might not have had any time to debate the report, so I'm just curious why June 1st versus like August 1st, so that we actually have time to interact with what comes back before this vote comes up again?
Speaker 1: Great question. Again, the commitment is to engage in this deep process and get there. I'm hoping that at the end of that, we will have something new to file starting then and starting through our council process in June.
Speaker 1: And I don't want to wait all the way until August to have that, because I do want next time to do a better job of making sure that we have all the time. And so I would like to get through the process, having a stakeholder input that informs what we then file as soon as possible after that
Speaker 1: stakeholder process to again also keep an eye on us to say, hey, if, if the stakeholder group has come to something that is bigger and broader and bolder and better at that point, we will have this in front of us to make sure that it's top of mind and be able to file a new path forward and
Speaker 1: start it through the process.
Speaker 12: Okay. I guess I'll just comment that I think what that really means then is that if the idea is that a bill is done by the end of May, in fact there then needs to be a lot of council interaction from, you know, not every member will serve on this work group.
Speaker 12: And if in fact, your goal is to have a bill before this June 1st date, then in fact you need to start engaging us like in April so that we have a couple of months to interact. So I just want to point out that by making the bill deadline June 1st, it means you actually have to have
Speaker 12: the analysis and engagement stuff done then in time for the bill discussion to emerge rather than plopping a bill at the same time as the report. So I'm a little concerned about those two things happening on top of each other.
Speaker 12: I think the goal here is to separate them out with some space. But I will continue to listen to the discussion and I appreciate the parties having stayed at the table to find some common ground and some immediate action in terms of the $8 million additional investment, which I think is not the net dollars, it's just the
Speaker 12: new dollars. There would be probably the base dollars as well. So I look forward to the budget process as well. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. I'll just also add that on that June 1st date, we could decide at that point that, hey, this isn't ready for a full bill. We could further delay or we could say a bill is imminent and we could kill this bill entirely at that time to create that space.
Speaker 1: But it again, puts a very real end date to the commitment that both sides have made to having that process completed. Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to thank you for.
Speaker 1: Your leadership on this issue. I want to thank the mayor for coming to the table.
Speaker 0: In what were.
Speaker 1: Not easy negotiations on this. Everybody was on the same page, I believe are real close to the same page. On the need to aggressively address climate change. We just needed to do a little bit of wrestling on exactly how we were going to get there.
Speaker 1: And I appreciate.
Speaker 0: Not only.
Speaker 1: The the other co-sponsors of the bill, but this was truly, from my view, an effort of virtually this entire council. I know Councilwoman Kenney played an invaluable role in.
Speaker 4: Not only.
Speaker 1: Urging us towards.
Speaker 0: Compromise, but at the same time.
Speaker 1: Working hard to to offer amendments to the bill in the in case it does move forward at some point. Councilman Ortega was busy as well in that type of regards. I had great discussions with with our other council members who were not fans of the process that we were involved in, but worked hard to move that move
Speaker 1: this forward. I find it extremely interesting that as we if we meet the timeline that this proposes, that will be coming to our proposed solution on perhaps funding streams or additional processes almost are right on the heart of April 22nd, 2020.
Speaker 1: That will be 50 years from our first Earth Day celebration that the former the late Senator Gaylord Nelson of Wisconsin, spearheaded. So I'm extremely excited the direction that we're heading in. And thank all involved for getting us here.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Councilman Cashman. Councilman, Councilwoman Joyce.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. Just so that I'm understanding is the process next to use the existing bill language as a starting point for conversation or to start this from scratch?
Speaker 1: I think the commitment is to go in with, you know, again, an open mind on where we go from here to really dig deeper into what do we really need and how do we fund it. This was the catalyst for that conversation.
Speaker 1: But that, you know, as we heard, there were people who didn't feel that they were at the table from the beginning and had their voice. And so to start from ground zero with the shared path that we need to be able to get to a place where we can do the work and fund the work that needs
Speaker 1: to be done as set by the science.
Speaker 10: Okay. Thank you. And just so I can mention, I appreciate the fact that a pause was taken to collect more input and engage District three stakeholders. I have a number of small businesses, art and business districts who reach out to our process, our office.
Speaker 10: I'm sorry on why they couldn't been couldn't have been part of that process, not that they opposed the goal, that they recognized the impact, but that they didn't want to be rolled over. So thank you so much for the courage to bring this bill and to both through this pause.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman Sandoval.
Speaker 6: Thank you. So I would just like to also share my sentiments that. Thank you, Councilman President Clark, for being a bold leader on climate change. During my campaign, I often talked about the next seven generations. And oftentimes you'll see in my office or in my house, I use seven generation products.
Speaker 6: And I think that a lot of times when we're making decisions, we're not making decisions based on the next seven generations. We make them based on what's going on in our current climate. And I just want to say that my sister, Kendra Sandoval, who had worked for the.
Speaker 3: Administration, had talked to me. Often times she has her.
Speaker 6: Master's in sustainability and from Naropa University. And she sent me a beautiful text this morning when I was talking to her about this compromise. And it said government should protect people and regulate corporations, not protect corporations and regulate people.
Speaker 6: And so I just thought about that deep today when I was thinking about this bill and moving forward on a compromise. And I think that this is shows that we can all work together, even though there's five newly elected members here sitting here with you, and that we can work with the administration and the mayor's office.
Speaker 6: So I applaud the mayor for taking this bold step as well. And I look forward in the next year to coming up solutions for the next seven generations of Democrats, for the world and for my kids and for my grandkids.
Speaker 6: And I just want to thank the co-sponsors. I don't think it was easy to make this decision. And I just want to say that I don't think it was taken lightly for you all to come to a compromise.
Speaker 6: And I just want to say thank you for doing that. I really just honor that. And I respect where you came from.
Speaker 14: And thank you, John, for your work on this.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. All right. Any other comments on this one? I will just add again, thank you to the administration for continuing to work with us as we were barreling down on this deadline. I'm so excited about how we move forward.
Speaker 1: Thank you to all of the citizens and the groups that have been involved so far and will be involved from here on. We're going to have a lot of hard work to do, but I'm really excited about that work.
Speaker 1: I also want to give a shout out because I think in the midst of this and talking about how we're not doing enough, I don't want that to seem like that is a criticism of our current sustainability staff or our current climate staff, and they do amazing work.
Speaker 1: And I hope that you all will hear this as a renewed statement that we have your back and we are ready to push with you and for you to do the work that you all know and keep telling us that we need to do and that we're here to to help make that possible.
Speaker 1: And thank you for the amazing work that you have done so far on that. So with that, I believe, Madam Secretary, first we need to just vote to take it out of order so that then I can propose this postponement.
Speaker 1: Is that correct? Okay. So this is just the vote on taking it out of order so I can propose the delay. Madam Secretary, call.
Speaker 3: Black Eye. CdeBaca. Eye for an Eye Gillmor. Eye. Herndon Hines. Eye Cashman. I can each. Ortega. Sandoval. Sawyer Eye. Torres. Eye. Mr. President. Hi.
Speaker 1: Madam Secretary. Please close voting in US. Results 1339 as council zero three has been taken out of order and now I move that council bill 803 be postponed to Monday, June 1st, 2020, and that has been moved and seconded.
Speaker 1: Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 3: Black Eye. CDEBACA No.
Speaker 4: Flynn All right.
Speaker 3: Gilmore, I.
Speaker 5: Herndon, I.
Speaker 3: Hines.
Speaker 2: I.
Speaker 3: Cashman Kenny Ortega. I see an evil eye. Sawyer No. Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Hi, Madam Secretary. Please close the voting and notes results.
Speaker 3: Two days. 11 eyes.
Speaker 1: 11 days to nays. Bill 803 has been postponed to June 1st. All right, Madam Secretary, if you put the next item on our screens and Councilman Hines, will you please put Council 805 on the floor?

Speaker 1: I. I'm Secretary. Please close voting announced results 1339 as Resolution 81.
Speaker 13: Has been requested.
Speaker 1: I'm not quite done yet. If you're here on this issue, we actually have two contracts, so you might want to sit and we're going to vote on the next one. You're free to leave if you'd like. Madam Secretary, will you please for the next item on our screens?
Speaker 1: And, Councilman Hines, will you please put resolution 882 on the floor?
Speaker 2: Mr. President, I move a resolution eight two for adoption.
Speaker 1: It has been moved and seconded, and I believe everyone was commenting on both of them. So I think we can move straight into the vote unless I see somebody pop up here and I don't. So, Madam Secretary, roll call on 882.
Speaker 2: Hinds I.
Speaker 3: Black. I. CdeBaca, I fled i. Gilmore i. Herndon, i. Cashman can each. Ortega. I. Sandoval, i. Sawyer, I. Torres, i. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I. Madam Secretary, please close the voting. Announce the results. 3939 as Resolution 882 has been adopted. I will ask that if you are not sitting around for the rest of our meeting, we do have a packed agenda. So if you could Exodus quietly as possible and leave those doors closed as you get into the hallway so that

Speaker 1: Evening speakers should begin their remarks by telling the council their names and cities of residents and if they feel comfortable doing so, their home addresses. If you are here to answer questions only when your name is called, please come to the podium, state your name and note that you are available for questions of council.
Speaker 1: Speakers will have 3 minutes and there is no yielding of time on the presentation monitor. On the wall you will see your time counting down. Speakers must stay on the topic of the hearing and must direct their comments to the council members.
Speaker 1: Please refrain from profane or obscene speech. Direct your comments to council as a whole and please refrain from individual or personal attacks. Councilwoman Gilmore, will you please vote council 744 on the floor.
Speaker 10: Yes, President Clarke, I move that council bill 19 dash 0744 be placed upon final consideration.
Speaker 8: And do pass.
Speaker 1: It has been moved and seconded. Councilwoman Black. I understand you have a motion to amend.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I move that council bill 19 0744 be amended in the following particulars on page one strike lines 29 through 33. On page three, strike lines eight through nine on page three. Line ten, replace 11 with ten.
Speaker 6: And on page three. Line 14, replace 12 with 11.
Speaker 1: It has been. Do we have a motion and a second on the amendment, Madam Secretary?
Speaker 3: We do.
Speaker 1: Excellent. Thank you. Third has been moved and seconded comments by members of the Council. Council in Black.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. This amendment is to conform to the amendment made last week at City Council to remove the establishment of tax increment areas.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you. So, Secretary, I think we're gonna do work on the amendment before we open this up. Correct. Okay, so roll call on the amendment.
Speaker 3: Black I. CdeBaca when I. Gillmor, I. Herndon Hines. Cashman. Kenny Ortega I see Novo. Sawyer, I. Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Hi, Madam Secretary. Please. Because the voting in notes results.
Speaker 3: 12 US.
Speaker 1: 12 Eyes Council Bill 744 has been amended. The public hearing for Council Bill 744 is open. May we have the staff report?
Speaker 14: Good evening, Mr. President. Members of City Council. My name is Tracy Huggins. I'm the executive director of the Denver Urban Renewal Authority. And Dura is requesting City Council approval of Council Bill 19 074 forward to approve the East Colfax Corridor Urban Redevelopment Plan establishing the East Colfax Corridor, Urban Redevelopment Area.
Speaker 14: The Denver Urban Renewal Authority. As the city's redevelopment agency is statutorily charged to pursue the elimination of blighting conditions through thoughtful redevelopment and development. Therefore, a fundamental component of the proposed urban redevelopment plan is the determination by City Council that the approach that the proposed urban redevelopment area is blighted as is defined by state statute durect cannot
Speaker 14: undertake. Catch myself up here. Bear with me for a minute. There we go. Dura cannot undertake an urban redevelopment project in an urban redevelopment area unless the area has been determined to be blighted. While the neighborhoods in which the proposed urban redevelopment area is located have experienced varying levels of investment and growth over the last 50 years
Speaker 14: . The properties within the proposed urban redevelopment area along the East Cortex corridor have not experienced significant reinvestment. The creation of the East Colfax Corridor, Urban Redevelopment Area, as part of the approval of the Urban Redevelopment Plan, will allow various public improvement projects to be pursued, and it will allow assistance to the private sector to encourage projects, including
Speaker 14: commercial mixed use and housing developments and other statutorily authorized projects throughout the urban redevelopment area. When considering the creation of an urban redevelopment area, the boundaries of the area must first be determined. State law requires the boundaries to be drawn as narrowly as possible to accomplish the development objectives of the urban redevelopment area.
Speaker 14: The boundaries were determined in coordination with the city's planning department. Once the boundaries were determined, Duran engaged a consultant to conduct a condition study. When conducting a condition study, Durham must notify in writing. Each private property owner in the study area that their property is being included in the study area.
Speaker 14: During notified each property owner by mail, we then hosted a meeting of the property owners to describe the condition study process and then hosted a follow up meeting to share the results of the study. In making the determination of blight, City Council relies on evidence presented at this hearing, including the condition study.
Speaker 14: If the area is determined to be blighted, Durham will provide notice of the determination to all property owners. The proposed urban redevelopment area is comprised of approximately 80 acres and is located in the far eastern portion of the city and county of Denver within the Montclair, South Park Hill and East Colfax Statistical neighborhoods.
Speaker 14: The eastern boundary of the urban redevelopment area coincides with the boundary between the city and county of Denver and the city of Aurora. The urban redevelopment area is focused along Colfax Avenue and the real property parcels in the blocks immediately to the north and south of Colfax Avenue, including the Colfax right of way and other public rights
Speaker 14: of way that are adjacent to these parcels. The urban redevelopment area is generally bounded by Monaco Parkway on the West and Yosemite Street on the east. The urban redevelopment area encompasses all or portions of 48 city blocks, which are all primarily within the Main Street Zone district due to their orientation along East Colfax Avenue Transit Corridor and
Speaker 14: the commercial nature of the area. Der commissioned Matrix Design Group to conduct the study to determine if the area is blighted. That study, dated February of 2019, has been filed with the city clerk as part of the record of this public hearing.
Speaker 14: The study addresses each of the 11 factors and summarizes why or why not. A particular factor was determined to be present in the study area. For purposes of this draft report, I will only be speaking to the five factors constituting blighting conditions that were found to be present in the study area.
Speaker 14: Deteriorated or deteriorating structures. An onsite survey was performed in the study area to document existing conditions. Buildings as well as property were surveyed. Many structures in the study area were found to be dilapidated, with characteristics such as broken and or boarded windows and doors peeling paint deteriorated, fascia and or sockets and broken signs.
Speaker 14: Some structures were in good condition, but many more lacked proper maintenance, especially buildings that were vacant. The prevalence and frequency of dilapidated structures in the study area was significant enough to impact the overall character of the study area.
Speaker 14: As a result, there is a finding of slum deteriorated or deteriorating structures. Unsanitary or unsafe conditions. As part of this study, crime records from the Denver Police Department over the last five years, plus the year to date, were examined.
Speaker 14: During that time period, there were over 6000 reported incidents in the study area, not including minor traffic incidents that were not classified as crime by the police department. Over the same time period, the three official neighborhoods that encompassed the entirety of the study area again South Park Hill, Montclair and East Colfax had 16,512 reported crimes, not including
Speaker 14: minor traffic incidents. The three neighborhoods had nearly three times the number of crimes as the study area alone, but over an area 38 times larger, giving the study area a crime density and order of magnitude much greater than the surrounding vicinity.
Speaker 14: It should be noted that the three neighborhoods considered in this analysis are entirely developed and do not include a significant portion of vacant land or parkland. All three are composed of streets on a grid, contain high density housing, and all three are solidly within central Denver.
Speaker 14: In other words, population density is spread fairly evenly across the three neighborhoods, but crime is concentrated ten fold within the boundaries of the study area. Based on the high concentration of violent crime in the study area, a finding of unsanitary or unsafe conditions has been made.
Speaker 14: Deterioration of sight or other improvements. The conditions that apply to this play factor reflect the deterioration of various improvements made on a site other than building structures. These conditions may represent a lack of general maintenance at a site the physical degradation, degradation of specific improvements, or an improvement that was poorly planned or constructed.
Speaker 14: Overall, the presence of these conditions can reduce the site's usefulness and desirability and negatively affect nearby properties. During the Field Survey, a lack of adequate site maintenance was noted to be a common occurrence. Several properties had discarded mattresses or other types of illegal dumping.
Speaker 14: Others had deteriorated parking lots, overgrown vegetation or dilapidated retail signs or other improvements. Finally, broken or crumbling sidewalks and other pedestrian surfaces were commonplace. These issues were not universal. Many properties were found to be in good condition. However, the frequency of issues found warrants a finding of deterioration of site and other improvements.
Speaker 14: Unusual topography or inadequate public improvements or utilities. The focus of this factor is on the presence of unusual topographical conditions that could make development prohibitive, such as steep slopes or poor load bearing soils, as well as deficiencies in the public infrastructure system.
Speaker 14: Within the study area, that could include deteriorated public infrastructure such as streets and alley pavement, curb gutter sidewalks, street lighting, storm drainage systems, lack of public infrastructure, the presence of overhead utilities or billboards, inadequate fire protection facilities and hydrants and inadequate sanitation or water systems.
Speaker 14: The topography of the area is generally flat and does not present a limitation to development. However, sidewalk infrastructure in the study area is generally present along Colfax, but in poor condition. Many sections of the sidewalk were noted during the field study to be absent along side streets or in other cases, severely damaged.
Speaker 14: Current conditions contribute to a general sense of a lack of maintenance and lack of infrastructure. Finally, the presence of billboards along Colfax Avenue through the study area has the potential to complicate redevelopment projects due to active billboard leases.
Speaker 14: The infrastructure needs mention to support a positive finding of unusual topography or inadequate public improvements in the study area. And lastly, the existence of health, safety or welfare factors requiring high levels of municipal services or substantial physical underutilization or vacancy of sites, buildings or other improvements.
Speaker 14: Municipal service calls are elevated in the study area, as described earlier. The study area covers a heavily developed mixed use area, but many structures and units within these structures in the study area were vacant during the field survey and many of these vacant buildings were among those found in the worst repair.
Speaker 14: Furthermore, due to the historical development of East Colfax in the area, many buildings cover a low percentage of their respective properties and devote the rest of the land to parking, contributing to a sense of underutilization. The current Main Street Zone code allows for three storey buildings in some portions of the study area and five story buildings in
Speaker 14: others. Envisioning a significantly higher development intensity than currently prevails. However, the lack of investment in the area means that the current character of the study area largely remains noncompliant to the code and is instead grandfathered in maintaining an abundance of parking lots.
Speaker 14: Low development intensity and automobile oriented buildings large, often empty or nearly empty parking lots are a common feature of the study area and contribute to its overall underutilization. The high levels of municipal service calls the the prevalence of vacant retail and commercial buildings and the underdeveloped character of the study area are grounds for a positive finding of
Speaker 14: the existence of health, safety or welfare factors requiring high levels of municipal services or substantial physical, underutilization or vacancy of sites, buildings and other improvements. These blight factors, individually and collectively impair or arrest the sound growth of the municipality and constitute an economic and social liability and a menace to the public health, safety, morals and welfare of
Speaker 14: the area. In bringing forward this urban redevelopment plan, Darragh has sought to align the goals and objectives of the plan with the existing city plans for the area, including the Denver Comprehensive Plan 2040 Blueprint, Denver, the East, Montclair, East Colfax Neighborhood Plan and the Park Hill Neighborhood Plan.
Speaker 14: Additionally, the Urban Redevelopment Plan requires any project to also be consistent with future plans, including the East Area Plan. Plan. 2040 is the holistic and sustainable vision of the city and the guiding document for shaping the city. The goals and strategies within Planning Plan 2040 are organized under a framework of six vision elements.
Speaker 14: Equitable, affordable and inclusive. Strong and authentic neighborhoods. Connected. Safe and accessible places. Economically diverse and vibrant. Environmentally resilient and healthy and active. The Urban Redevelopment Plan will help realize the visions of Plan 2040 by furthering many of the goals and strategies outlined under each vision vision elements.
Speaker 14: So by way of example, as we start in the upper left with equitable, affordable and inclusive, the outcome that is noted in in Plan 2040 is to build housing as a continuum, to serve residents across a range of income, ages and needs.
Speaker 14: This would be also reflected in the urban renewal plan. Strong and authentic neighborhoods create a city of complete neighborhoods. Build a network of well-connected, vibrant, mixed use centers and corridors, connected, safe and accessible places, promote transit oriented development and encourage higher density development, including affordable housing near transit to support ridership.
Speaker 14: Economically diverse and vibrant. Targeted investments and small business support to the most underserved or distressed neighborhoods. Environmentally resilient, focused growth by transit stations and along high and medium capacity transit corridors. And finally, healthy and active. Expand the efforts to recruit and retain fresh food retailers in low income and underserved areas.
Speaker 14: These are just several of the plan components that are also noted in the Urban Redevelopment Plan. Blueprint. Denver is the city's integrated land use and transportation plan. BLUEPRINT Denver aims to achieve an equitable integration of land use and transportation throughout the city by realizing the plan's vision for a city of complete neighborhoods and transportation networks, an evolving
Speaker 14: city and an equitable city. The Urban Redevelopment Plan will support Blueprint Denver's Vision for the Urban Redevelopment Area. Starting with a city of complete network, Complete Neighborhoods and Networks blueprint. Denver identifies that the urban redevelopment area primarily lies within the urban edge neighborhood context.
Speaker 14: The urban edge context is predominantly residential and acts as a transition between more intense urban contexts and suburban areas. Blueprint Denver foresees the majority of the urban redevelopment area evolving into a community corridor, community corridors within the urban edge contexts or destinations with an extensive mix of uses that draw visitors from surrounding neighborhoods and are characterized by
Speaker 14: a pedestrian oriented environment. Colfax Avenue, the arterial street running through the center of the urban redevelopment area, is envisioned as a Main Street arterial. Main streets are characterized by a mix of active street level uses that prioritize people walking or rolling.
Speaker 14: The Urban Redevelopment Plan will support the complete Neighborhood and Transportation Network Vision for the Urban Redevelopment Area, as depicted in Blueprint Denver. An evolving city. Focusing growth in centers and corridors helps to provide a variety of housing, jobs and entertainment options within a comfortable distance to all Denver sites, and is a key element of building complete neighborhoods
Speaker 14: throughout the city. Collectively, throughout the city, community corridors are anticipated to see 25% of new housing growth and 20% of new employment growth growth by 2040. The Urban Redevelopment Plan aims to stimulate the development of housing, retail and office space in the urban redevelopment area, which is consistent with the city's growth strategy.
Speaker 14: An Equitable City blueprint. Denver incorporates equity into the planning process by measuring three key indicators across the city. Access to opportunity. Vulnerability to displacement and housing and jobs. Diversity. An existing analysis demonstrates that the urban redevelopment area is in an area which has low access to opportunity, high vulnerability to displacement, and low job density and diversity.
Speaker 14: The neighborhood falls in the middle range for housing diversity diversity. The Urban Redevelopment Plan will foster development that will improve the urban redevelopment area's equitable outcomes as measured by these three indicators. These include incentivizing development of affordable housing, community serving amenities and new employment opportunities.
Speaker 14: Blueprint Denver provides policy recommendations and strategies to create complete neighborhoods and networks, guide future growth and promote equitable development. The Urban Redevelopment Plan will further many of these recommendations. As noted earlier, the urban redevelopment area lies within three statistical neighborhoods which have adopted neighborhood plans.
Speaker 14: The first is the east Montclair East, North East Colfax Neighborhood Plan. The East Montclair East Colfax Neighborhood Plan promotes a pattern of land use, urban design, circulation and services that contribute to the economic, social and physical health, safety and welfare of the people who live or do business in the East Colfax Neighborhood.
Speaker 14: The East Montclair East Colfax Neighborhood Plan is applicable to the portions of the urban redevelopment area, north and south of Colfax between Quebec and Yosemite, and to the south side of Compacts Avenue between Monaco and Quebec. The East Montclair East Colfax Neighborhood Plan envisions a more pedestrian friendly, landscaped and thriving commercial district along East Colfax Avenue.
Speaker 14: The vision for the East Colfax corridor also includes an improved image and a, quote, cleaner and more beautiful, inviting business district that will strengthen existing businesses and attract new businesses to the area, end quote. Additionally, the East Montclair East Colfax Neighborhood Plans Transportation Vision for the area imagines a neighborhood friendly to walking and biking.
Speaker 14: The Park Hill Neighborhood Plan intends to promote patterns of desired neighborhood change. Urban Design. Housing development and preservation. Business development. Traffic flow. And safety and other public services. All of which contribute to the economic, social and physical health, safety and welfare of the people who live and work in Park Hill.
Speaker 14: The Park Hill Neighborhood Plan is applicable to the northern portion of the urban redevelopment area along Colfax Avenue between Monica Parkway and Quebec Street. The Park Hill Neighborhood Plan identifies Colfax Avenue as not only the main street for the neighborhood, but also for the city's metropolitan region.
Speaker 14: The Park Hill Neighborhood Plans primary goal for Colfax Avenue is to create a stable, safe, attractive, well-lit retail street with a mix of offices, neighborhood businesses and destination businesses that attract customers from out of the geographic area and with anchor tenants to increase activity and uses for other businesses.
Speaker 14: The city is currently working on the East Area Plan as part of the broader Neighborhood Planning Initiative, which, if approved, will replace the existing East Montclair, East Colfax and Park Hill neighborhood plans. Any future urban redevelopment project will need to demonstrate compliance with the objectives of the then current neighborhood plans.
Speaker 14: The proposed urban redevelopment plan seeks to eliminate blight through the creation of the East Colfax Corridor Urban Redevelopment Area. The main goals of the Urban Redevelopment Plan are as follows. First, eliminate blight to renew and improve the character of the area.
Speaker 14: Encourage the creation of complete and equitable neighborhoods. Encourage mixed use development and redevelopment that is socially and economically inclusive. Encourage the growth of existing uses that are suitable to the area more effectively. Use underdeveloped land within the area, and encourage land use patterns that result in a more environmentally sustainable city.
Speaker 14: It also looks to encourage the participation of existing property owners in the redevelopment of their property to promote a diverse mix of attainable housing options, encourage affordable business space for small, independent businesses, improve access to healthy transportation options, healthy foods, and open space.
Speaker 14: And minimize the displacement of communities serving businesses or residents. When approved, the Urban Redevelopment Plan will describe the area and plan objectives. It will describe project activities and authorize tax increment financing. It will require projects to conform with Plan 2040 and its adopted supplements, which have a very intentional focus on equitable development.
Speaker 14: They will also require the application of the existing DURA programs, including project art, first source hiring, small business, enterprise utilization, enhanced training opportunities and prevailing wage if the project includes trunk infrastructure. As important as it is in describing what the urban redevelopment plan will do, it is equally important to describe what it will not do.
Speaker 14: Approval of the plan will not tonight approve approve an urban redevelopment project. It will not approve the use of tax increment financing. It does not authorize the use of eminent domain, and it will not rezone any property within the urban redevelopment area.
Speaker 14: Any future project that may require tax increment assistance will require City Council approval and which will require the project to meet the objectives of the plan. In approving this Council bill, council will be making the following findings. The urban redevelopment area described in the plan is found and declared to be a blighted area as defined in the
Speaker 14: Colorado Urban Renewal Law. And the conditions of blight constitute an economic and social liability and a menace to the public health, safety, morals or welfare. This is a legislative finding by the City Council. Based upon the blight study or other evidence presented to City Council that the boundaries of the urban redevelopment area have been drawn as narrowly
Speaker 14: as feasible to accomplish the planning and development development objectives of the plan. If any individuals or families are displaced from dwelling units as a result of adoption or implementation of the East Colfax Corridor Urban Redevelopment Plan. A feasible method exists for the relocation of those individuals or families in accordance with the Urban Renewal Act.
Speaker 14: If business concerns are displaced by the adoption or implementation of the East Colfax Corridor Urban Redevelopment Plan, a feasible method exists for the relocation of those business concerns again in accordance with the Act. That written notice of this public hearing has been provided to all property owners, residents and owners of business concerns in the resolution setting this
Speaker 14: public hearing. City Council requested der to undertake this task. Written notice was mailed first class mail to all known property owners, residents and owners of business concerns in the East Colfax Corridor. Urban Redevelopment Area. On July 24th, 2019, which was more than 30 days prior to this public hearing, find that no more than 120 days have passed
Speaker 14: since the first public hearing before City Council on the plan. Tonight is the first public hearing before Council on this urban redevelopment plan. You will be finding that this is the first consideration of an urban renewal plan for this site.
Speaker 14: And thus the City Council has not previously failed to approve an urban redevelopment plan for this site, and as such, the requirement to wait at least 24 months since any prior public hearing is inapplicable. Conformance with Denver Comprehensive Plan.
Speaker 14: On July 17th, 2019, the Denver Planning Board unanimously found that the Urban Redevelopment Plan conforms with the Denver Comprehensive Plan and it's applicable supplements. A letter to that effect has been submitted as part of the record of this hearing and that the East Colfax Corridor Urban Redevelopment Plan will afford maximum opportunity consistent with the sound needs of
Speaker 14: Denver as a whole for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of the urban redevelopment area by private enterprise. The Urban Redevelopment Plan does not consist of any area for open land, which is to be developed for residential or nonresident residential uses.
Speaker 14: Nor does it include any agricultural land. Finally, again, want to emphasize that no acquisition by eminent domain is authorized by the plan. In closing, Dura is very pleased to be working with the city and county of Denver to bring forward the urban redevelopment plan for this area.
Speaker 14: During staff has spent over two years working with community planning and development, the partnership as well as area residents, businesses and property owners through the East Colfax Corridor Condition Study Process, the city's east area plan effort and in preparation of this East Colfax Corridor Urban Redevelopment Plan, the potential for Darra supported redevelopment captures many citywide goals, objectives
Speaker 14: and strategies that are found in the Denver Comprehensive Plan 2040 Blueprint, Denver and the Neighborhood Plans. We look forward to working with the property owners, business owners, community members and others to bring about the revitalization opportunities outlined in these plans.
Speaker 14: With that concludes my staff report, and I'd be happy to answer any questions.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. We have 15 individuals signed up to speak this evening. What I'll ask is if you're sitting in the front row, sorry, but if you don't mind, maybe moving over to that row so that we can I'm going to call five people up at a time so they can be close to the podium, so
Speaker 1: that we can get through everybody quickly to have time for questions and all that good stuff. So I'm going to call up the first five if you want to come to this front bench and be ready to step right up to the microphone when your name is called.
Speaker 1: So first off, John Neal, Tim Roberts, Cathy Speed, Brendan Green and Jesse Paris. And John Neal, you are up first.
Speaker 0: My name is John Neal. I'm the secretary of the East Colfax Neighborhood Association. I was present at and recorded notes for the general meeting held Tuesday, August 20th, when I emailed the notes to Tim Roberts, president of the association, the next day, August 21st.
Speaker 0: I stated, quote, I did not include the so-called vote at the end of the meeting since it was not conducted properly. That is, there was no advance announcement of a pending vote in the agenda. Also, there was no consideration of a quorum.
Speaker 0: A number of the attendees had already left by then, and there were abstentions that were not counted. I hope you do not state to city council that the association voted to oppose the designation, since that would be a gross misrepresentation.
Speaker 0: Naturally, your passion and opinion certainly should be expressed at the city meeting on Monday. However, please do not abuse your position as President of Act Now to speak on behalf of all of the membership. Close quote. Tim replied quote I did add info on the vote to the minutes.
Speaker 0: It could have been less messy, but it certainly did happen. And that fact is all we are reporting going forward, close quote. In his letter to city council members dated August 23rd, Tim stated quote At the conclusion of the latter meeting, we voted with a show of hands to oppose approving the you are a 8 to 4
Speaker 0: . Close quote. I respectfully disagree. Article nine of the bylaws of the association entitled Parliamentary Authority States quote The rules contained in Robert's Rules of Order Revised shall govern the association's conduct of business in all cases to in all cases to which they are applicable.
Speaker 0: Close quote. Pursuant to Robert's Rules of Order. Quote The formal steps in handling a motion or the making of a motion having a second. Stating the motion. Having debate on the motion. Putting the motion to a vote. And announcing the results of the vote.
Speaker 0: Close quote. These basic steps of parliamentary action were not followed. In addition, since there was no mention of a proposed vote in the agenda as announced prior to the meeting, attendees were, in effect, blindsided by the purported vote, which took place at the very end of an extremely long meeting during which attrition had reduced the number of
Speaker 0: eligible voters. I ask the Council to disregard the so called vote of the East Colfax Neighborhood Association, since it was not conducted properly. In addition, paragraph number three of the letter you received regarding Dern.
Speaker 1: I'm sorry, but your time is up. Thank you. Next up, Tim Roberts.
Speaker 7: Thank you. Um hmm. I am an unpaid volunteer and I. Need some training. Let me think. First of all, the people.
Speaker 1: I'm Tim Roberts live in.
Speaker 7: Denver, East Colfax, business owner and president of the East Colfax Registered Labor Organization. I want to thank the people of East Colfax who have so far stepped up to grapple with this complex issue. I don't think it's easy.
Speaker 7: Thank you. We look at East Colfax, which close to 70% folks struggling to keep their homes, well over 30% in poverty. And we know that Doura does not have a record of protecting these communities. They seem in many instances, to have accomplished the opposite.
Speaker 7: For example, we know about the displacement in five points. We know about the severely homogenous community in Stapleton. How could we then be expected to stand by for any phase of a plan constructed by an organization that still tells us the city needs to be, quote, revitalized, or that areas where people currently live are, quote, blighted.
Speaker 7: We had a well publicized and well-attended R.A. meeting with the most vigorous debate I've seen in this R.A.. We were lucky enough to have the Dora director attend, and we argued back and forth for quite some time. The debate went on so long people were complaining, vote already.
Speaker 7: And finally we did. And it was 8 to 4 against. Again, this was a show of hands. It was relatively informal at this point. We're faced with a city council vote on a preliminary.
Speaker 1: But deeply structural.
Speaker 7: Policy that very likely will have massive effects on the neighborhood, just like it has on other neighborhoods. And when we go and try to make predictions, what we see associated with durable projects is a vast amount of displacement of exactly the populations we represent, not just once or twice, but for years on end, repeatedly not learning from
Speaker 7: things. Make no mistake, this vote is to stand with the people of East Colfax because we are working with, we are working with but in some sense under siege by the dirge generated community. To our north in Stapleton another Dora project in the south and Lowry and from the west by South Park Hill, now openly co-opting the
Speaker 7: east area plan. We are an outpost surrounded. We ask you to vote for a reset to an old school financial giveaway with a progressive mask. We own up to the truth that the value systems that are being overlaid on disadvantaged communities are themselves the blight we need to confront.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you. Next up, Cathy Speed.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much for your time tonight. I've looked at the.
Speaker 10: East Area plan and I am.
Speaker 0: Neither for or against it. I find elements of it that I enjoy and I also.
Speaker 11: Find elements that are somewhat challenging, that are missing. There are things in there that are ill defined, like the.
Speaker 0: Accessory dwelling units. There's no definitions. There's nothing in there that goes to how that works.
Speaker 11: And there's a June 2018 letter from.
Speaker 0: The OR I should say, a memo from the zoning administrator that gives definitions.
Speaker 11: But none of that was incorporated into the exterior plan. So that's an area of or an example of where there are some things that are not well defined within the plan, but there are other things that are great about the plan where.
Speaker 0: Adding in a new community center like UNITA and Colfax.
Speaker 11: Or Yosemite and Colfax, that's great. That would be a great addition to that area of town.
Speaker 0: But I rise really tonight for one reason, and that is I am a long time homeowner in this target area and.
Speaker 10: Starting back in.
Speaker 0: 1994. The area plans that were in these neighborhoods promised to redevelop Quebec Street. We are a stand watched neighborhood between Lowry and Stapleton. You had.
Speaker 11: 30,000 people added in.
Speaker 0: At Stapleton. You have 25,000 people that were added in at Lowry.
Speaker 11: Our neighborhood is compressed between those two areas.
Speaker 0: And the area that has been promised over and over to us to be redeveloped is a two and a half mile stretch of Quebec Street. It is still remains a two lane road. And in the East Area plan, there was a tabled item there that indicated that the funding for the Quebec Street renovation and renovation at $23
Speaker 0: million was going to be postponed and tabled under consideration of.
Speaker 11: The East Area Plan. So I would really.
Speaker 0: Suggest and hope that City Council would at least earmark that $23 million in funds so that it does not get spent on something else while we continue to really.
Speaker 11: Struggle.
Speaker 0: With that area, because that's going to be a huge deal for us.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Brendan Green.
Speaker 10: Point of order, Mr. President.
Speaker 12: May I just ask if some of the speakers are referencing a plan that is not on the agenda tonight? Can you please clarify the scope of this hearing as opposed to or can the staff please clarify that? Just I think everyone's voice is important, but I want to make sure folks understand what we have before us tonight
Speaker 12: and what we don't. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Tracy, do you want to come up and clarify? Certainly. Thank you.
Speaker 14: And if I may go back to a slide that I used previously.
Speaker 3: Which, of.
Speaker 14: Course, may be easier said than done, but we are here tonight asking council to consider is the urban renewal plan. The Urban Renewal Plan is also a planning document that draws upon the goals and objectives of other existing city approved plans.
Speaker 14: So we talked about Plan 2040 Blueprint Denver. Currently, the neighborhood plans that we are drawing references from are the the East Montclair East Colfax Neighborhood Plan, as well as the Park Hill plan. The city is also working on the East Area plan, but that has not been adopted.
Speaker 14: And so therefore today the urban renewal plan does not reflect what is what may be included in the East Area plan. That is a separate, different planning effort than the urban redevelopment plan that's being brought forward for consideration tonight.
Speaker 1: Councilman, does that get to what you were looking for?
Speaker 12: I just wanted the public to make sure that we are not voting tonight on an east area plan. That term is used by community planning and developments. So I just want to. There are two separate votes at some point the council will vote on.
Speaker 12: So I just just wanted to make sure they understood that. But again, all of the testimony may still be relevant. I just want to make sure that that was clear for the right thing.
Speaker 1: Councilman, Councilwoman CdeBaca, do you have a point of clarification?
Speaker 6: Yes. On slide 16, the plan compliance. It shows the pyramid of how these plans interact together. If I recall correctly, you said that if approved, this replaces the East Area plan, Park Hill and Montclair, and essentially supersedes those plans.
Speaker 6: Am I correct?
Speaker 14: That is correct.
Speaker 6: So we kind of are.
Speaker 1: Okay. All right. We will get into some debate and questions. Just to clarify, again, this is the bill that we have in front of us, so to speak. Speak to that bill. We've heard some clarification up here, but we're going to move along, giving people their time at the microphone.
Speaker 1: Brendan GREENE.
Speaker 7: Thank you. My name is Brendan Green. I'm a long time resident of the East Colfax Corridor, grew up on 23rd and Forest graduate of East High School. I currently live on 13th and Wabash Street. I'm the new community organizer for the Facts Partnership with 20 years experience organizing.
Speaker 7: Most recently was the campaign's director for the past ten years for the Colorado Immigrant Rights Coalition. The main focus of my work is going to be to organize, to preserve and protect local residents from displacement as the pressures of gentrification come our way.
Speaker 7: I'm extremely excited to be able to organize in my community to make sure that the development of our community is in line with our community's vision and that it prioritizes affordability and places a value on diversity and maintaining the vibrant mix of cultures.
Speaker 7: That makes East Colfax what it is. I'm here to speak in favor tonight of the urban renewal area for my neighborhood. As someone who grew up in between North and South Park Hill. I've lived the impact of gentrification and seen my old neighborhood change dramatically in my lifetime.
Speaker 7: My block used to have a great deal of diversity, and now that has changed as property values have skyrocketed, and many in my generation can no longer afford to live in the neighborhood. In East Colfax, we still have an opportunity to be intentional in our planning and make sure that we develop in a way that protects local
Speaker 7: community from displacement and places a value on economic and cultural diversity. I see the urban renewal area as an important tool to provide incentives to private entities to bring much needed investment to the neighborhood for affordable housing projects such as PHENIX on the Facts and the Supportive Housing Project on 7900 East Colfax.
Speaker 7: We can grow in a way where our community prospers and our communities are valued. We can fight and build our neighborhood in a way that pushes urban renewal and not urban removal. Most importantly, I trust in our community and I trust in you as our city council to be responsive to our community feedback and make sure that
Speaker 7: we only approve projects through this urban renewal area that our community is serving and that prioritize the construction of new affordable housing units in line with the blueprint Denver and the East Area plans. We will be highly organized.
Speaker 7: We will be closely monitoring projects. And we will be president here at the city council meetings to provide checks and balances and make sure that projects meet the desperate need to create more affordability in our neighborhood. I'm confident that the leadership exists in our in our neighborhood and that we can partner with you, our city council, to
Speaker 7: make to you to use this tool wisely to protect the cultural and economic diversity of East Colfax and expand affordable housing. We look forward to partnering partnering with East Convex Neighborhood Association members, community organizations and local leadership to monitor proposals that come to a vote.
Speaker 7: And we really expect that you are council members will be sensitive and responsive to our community's needs and feedback on which projects should and which projects shouldn't move forward. Thank you for your time and I ask you for a yes vote.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up is Jesse Paris McCall, the next five up to the front of you. As for Thomas Fussing, Megan Atwater, Lee, Larry Drees and Marsha Casey. Go ahead.
Speaker 7: Jesse Parris represented for Denver Homicide Law, Black starts a movement for self-defense and positive action command for social change. And I was on top of the ballot for at large May 2019, almost 15,000 votes with no money. I'm neither for or against this.
Speaker 7: As the previous status have already stated. We have a crisis in the city. We have a housing crisis. We have 23,000 vacant apartments that need to be filled. But yet we want to redevelop all these areas of town for who this area is predominantly black and brown neighborhood.
Speaker 7: It's been that way since as long as I've been living, which is 32 years. So why was this neighborhood blighted for so long? For 30 plus years? Why was there no kind of development going on the past 20 years in this neighborhood?
Speaker 7: It just leads into the degradation this was caused. This is cause and effect. We don't need any more unattended consequences. You guys don't understand. You're literally gentrifying the whole city. Every side of town is being gentrified. North, east, west, south and north, east, west and south is being gentrified.
Speaker 7: We are being ethnically cleansed out of our neighborhoods. I am a native of Five Points in East Denver and I do not feel safe at home or. Welcome. In my own neighborhoods that I was born and raised in and grew up in.
Speaker 7: So what we want to know is how many affordable units are going to be built in this neighborhood? Exactly who is going to be residing in this neighborhood? Because, like we've already stated, we are being gentrified, ethnically cleansed out of the city.
Speaker 7: So who is this being built for? Who is this being redeveloped for? Because obviously it's not for us, because when we were here for the past 20, 30 years, you guys did not care one bit about what was going on.
Speaker 7: And this is why the degradation occurred and this is why the deterioration occurred. I've seen it with my own eyes. I've lived it. I've lived in these motels on the facts in this neighborhood. This is purposely being done.
Speaker 7: And we are not going to sit up here and sit around and allow you to keep continuously doing this. So I want to know exactly how many affordable units are going to be built, what the amount level for these units is going to be.
Speaker 7: Because I know salaries is being talked to affordable housing. But I want to know what the AMA level is going to be because we need 0 to 30% housing across the board and we don't need areas of concentrated poverty.
Speaker 7: So if you're going to build 0 to 30% housing, need to do it in every single neighborhood, every single district, not just in certain districts. We don't want the same thing to happen in this neighborhood that happened on the west side of Sun Valley, that happened on the north side and in Sunnyside and what happened on the
Speaker 7: east side in five points. So if somebody could please ask them, I'm.
Speaker 1: Sorry, your time is appreciated. Thank you. Next up, Nabeel Assefa.
Speaker 7: Hi. Thank you. My name is NAB. Never go as far. I'm a community organizer in the Ethiopian community, which represents the second largest foreign born population in the state of Colorado, with our roots in East Colfax. My role in the community includes organizing the annual Taste of Ethiopia Festival and co-chairing the Ethiopian American Development Council.
Speaker 7: Ethiopians have been making significant contribution to the economic development and cultural richness of Denver since the seventies, and we're proud to call the city home. Unfortunately, though, over the past decade, our community has been on an exodus to Aurora.
Speaker 7: This is largely due to the consequence of hyper development and gentrification that has effectively pushed out many minority and immigrant communities from Denver, East Colfax and the far northeast Denver have been the exceptions in this, where our community has been able to stay and prosper, where we have become significant contributors as small business owners, homeowners and positive
Speaker 7: cultural influencers. However, and the East Colfax neighborhood, many in the community feel that our fate is uncertain and are anticipating to deal with displacement, which has already begun. The reason for displacements are many, including the city's nuisance ordinance, which has been weaponized to close down many women, minority and family owned small businesses on East Colfax Avenue.
Speaker 7: The writing is already on the wall. Denver is increasingly becoming a different town, one that does not include us. This is why, by large, our community is fearful of the East Colfax Development Plan, oppose and opposed tax incentives like TIFF to private developers that have a track record of destroying communities around Denver.
Speaker 7: By large, we agree on that principle to revitalize East Colfax. However, we oppose the status quo approach. The status quo has failed us throughout Denver. Take, for example, the great promises. All this great promises were also made to five points.
Speaker 7: However good the intentions may have been the end results of our displacement and gentrification. Also, let's look at other neighborhoods like Reno, Stapleton or Lori. Have the promises been kept? Where are the affordable houses? Where is the racial equity diversity culture or the inclusive character that represents the spirit of Denver?
Speaker 7: Is this the type of neighborhood we want to turn East Colfax into? Is there a place for the poor and working class in the city as you consider your vote today, I would like to kindly ask you to consider who will benefit from this change.
Speaker 7: Are we setting up the foundation and institutional framework for displacement? Are we putting a target on the backs of East Colfax residents and small business owners? Are we creating an environment that incentivizes the wrong people? With all this challenges, these cold facts is a beautiful neighborhood with character, beautiful people and culture worth preserving.
Speaker 7: Please vote no. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Thomas Fessing. I'm Thomas.
Speaker 7: Fizzing a steering.
Speaker 1: Committee member on the East Area Plan and also a resident of the East Colfax neighborhood, which.
Speaker 5: Is in the urban redevelopment.
Speaker 1: Area. In the last 28 years, I've lived in every neighborhood along East Colfax from this building all the way to the rural border, which is my last stop. This urban redevelopment plan gives focus.
Speaker 11: It gives guidance.
Speaker 1: It gives a framework for development.
Speaker 7: Development is going to happen eventually in this area. It's already starting to happen on its own through private investors.
Speaker 5: But through.
Speaker 1: This program, it gives more of a framework.
Speaker 7: There's checks and.
Speaker 11: Balances.
Speaker 2: To make sure that it is.
Speaker 1: An equitable growth. The majority of our housing stock that is in the neighborhood that is low income or affordable housing is actually not within the boundaries.
Speaker 5: The boundaries of this.
Speaker 1: Urban renewal plan, when you look on the map, essentially is 15th, 14th to 16th Avenue along Colfax. The majority in the East Colfax neighborhood, specifically of that housing is in the far southeast corner of the neighborhood.
Speaker 7: Outside.
Speaker 5: Of the boundaries.
Speaker 1: But for the actual redevelopment on Colfax.
Speaker 7: I and the folks that live in the neighborhood want it to be equitable. We want the diversity to stay in the neighborhood.
Speaker 1: That's one reason many of us have purchased homes.
Speaker 7: The last ten years in the neighborhood. The other thing is the.
Speaker 2: Neighborhood plan.
Speaker 1: As it exists now. The East Montclair, East Colfax neighborhood plan is 25 years old.
Speaker 7: The South Park Hill plan.
Speaker 1: I think, is even older than that. South Park Hill Many of the things in the plan actually have taken place in the East Montclair East Colfax neighborhood. None of them.
Speaker 7: Have been 25.
Speaker 4: Years.
Speaker 1: So I think this gives a lot more guidance to the city, to the residents, to the future.
Speaker 2: Of this part of East Denver. Thank you. I support the plan.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Megan Tortorella, you.
Speaker 12: My name is Megan Tortorella, and I'm on the board of the East Colfax Neighborhood Association and I also live in the neighborhood. I'm here to.
Speaker 3: Urge council to oppose the approval of the East.
Speaker 6: Colfax Corridor Urban.
Speaker 12: Redevelopment Area. Here's what I know. More than half of East Colfax residents.
Speaker 6: Are struggling and at risk of displacement. It seems certain that designating the East Colfax corridor as an urban redevelopment area will accelerate.
Speaker 12: Gentrification and people will.
Speaker 6: Be forced to leave our neighborhood. The primary goal of our R.A. this year.
Speaker 12: Has been to increase participation and better represent all.
Speaker 6: Of the more than 1000 East Colfax residents. And if I have learned anything from the outreach process, it's that our neighbors have a real sense of fear that the city's agenda for East Colfax does not include many of its current residents.
Speaker 6: I am especially concerned about comments from last week's city council meeting.
Speaker 12: And the picture they painted of there.
Speaker 6: Is outreach efforts.
Speaker 12: I'm paraphrasing here, but it was said that Dora has gone above and beyond to ensure.
Speaker 6: That problems that often exist with urban redevelopment, such as displacement, will not happen in East Colfax. It was also stated that the city and borough are doing.
Speaker 12: Everything they.
Speaker 6: Can to involve the community in this process. At best, those comments were a gross exaggeration of efforts that have been made. Well, it is true that Tracy and others from Dora have attended and presented at several East Colfax R.A. meetings.
Speaker 6: It's completely disingenuous to say that extensive outreach has taken place in our community. There's been no attempt to include our most vulnerable our most vulnerable neighbors. In this conversation with Dora, attending a few R.A. meetings with 20 to 50 people in attendance is not the definition of doing everything that can be done to involve a community.
Speaker 6: I'm not naive, and I recognize that development is coming to East Colfax regardless of how the council votes tonight. But I have big concerns about incentivizing this development, particularly before East Colfax residents understand our is complex plan and the impact it will have on their ability to stay in their homes.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next to Larry Drees.
Speaker 4: My name is Larry Reese. I live on 1160 Verbena Street. I am a board director as well as East Colfax Neighborhood Association and have been active in the association for six years. Lived in the neighborhood for 15. I am for urban renewal specifically because it's a chance for quality of life for everybody right now.
Speaker 4: Any one of you want to walk with me from my house two blocks down to Colfax at 830 at night to go eat? Come join me. I beg you. It's quality of life for the whole neighborhood. And it's important that we have the opportunity to have our own town center like other parts of the city.
Speaker 4: We don't we have. Car lots. Some very good restaurants and some convenience stores. That's it. We need this change. And I don't see this neighborhood has always been extremely diverse. There's 27 different languages that are spoken in our neighborhood because of the refugees there along Yosemite.
Speaker 4: They're not going to get to this place. Why not build affordable housing for people that are living in rundown shacks in the area because their landlords don't care? That to me is more important, making the neighborhood better and better.
Speaker 4: Quality of life for everybody. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Marsha Casey and then call the last five to come up to the front bench. Stacey Loucks, Lashonda Weston, Kelsey Clarke, Monica martinez and Darian Horne.
Speaker 3: I mean.
Speaker 1: Have mercy. Mercy a Casey. Nope. Stacey Loucks. Kelsey Clarke.
Speaker 3: Hi. My name is Kelsey Clarke.
Speaker 6: And I am the business service outreach manager at the Facts Partnership, a community development nonprofit in East Colfax. And thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. In January of this year.
Speaker 3: The facts launched an East Colfax Business Support Office.
Speaker 6: With the support of the city of Denver to be an advocate on behalf of and provide assistance to our local business community. The majority of the businesses that we work with are located on the proposed urban renewal area from Monaco to Yosemite.
Speaker 6: Since January, we have been on the ground proactively and authentically getting to know our diverse and culturally rich business community. The facts recently concluded a business, a needs assessment, a survey, and receive an overwhelmingly 30% response rate.
Speaker 3: With their permission.
Speaker 6: I'm representing a handful of those businesses. Mr. Tank, owner at tanks, world class.
Speaker 3: Barbers quote Many of my current customers are having.
Speaker 6: To move due to high rent. End quote. April SS Office Manager at Kids Dental. Quote It is important that we stay where we are. Due to residential displacement, we worry that our patient base may be moving, making it more difficult for vulnerable children and their families to have access to quality dental care, end quote.
Speaker 3: The fact supports.
Speaker 6: The urban redevelopment area because the plan states that it will encourage affordable business space for small, independent businesses, including the promotion of diverse mix of attainable housing options. The facts will ease that TIFF is a valuable tool for developing affordable housing on this important transit corridor so that the Mr. Tanks and the assessors and their customers and
Speaker 6: their patients can stay in this community that we all love so much and continue to support these local businesses. Moses Alice Walker, property and business owner at Econo Emissions quote The property is my retirement plan for myself and for my wife.
Speaker 6: It is important to me that I work with people I trust when I decide to sell. I see the partnership as a trusted partner and quote the facts. Who believes that urban redevelopment area will help provide incentives to developers to invest in communities serving businesses and community benefiting development through our relationships and expertize?
Speaker 3: The facts will be.
Speaker 6: On the front lines of supporting our local businesses and we promoting such development opportunities. And we see TEF as an opportunity and a tool that will help us achieve that. Thank you again for your time.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Lashonda Weston.
Speaker 10: Hi. Thank you. I'm here to vote. Hopefully I'll vote against. I've been in community for a while. Long time, most of my life. And when Dora said that, they. They they notify people. This is my notice. It's just that there was a meeting tonight.
Speaker 10: I'm here because I feel that. That our area is very diverse. What I'm I mean, that I'm right off of Colfax. I'm on 15th in Colfax, so I'm literally right off of Colfax. 15th acknowledged. So my area I've seen grow.
Speaker 10: But to me, if Dora wants to help the neighborhood, there's plenty of opportunity to go up and down that street to help the people that are already in there. We have barbershops. We have restaurants. We just got a new brewery.
Speaker 10: We have Ace Hardware. We have many, many things on that corridor. And if they. Most of them are, you know, up to par in my standards. Some of them, yes. Can use a paint job or whatever. But the area that is there, people there, they support their businesses.
Speaker 10: They support their neighbors. And everybody gets basically alone. Yes. Our neighbor. And when people keep saying affordable housing, what does that mean? Because my house now, when I bought a long time ago, I can't afford to move back into that same house that I bought in 1980, which is very, very sad.
Speaker 10: So when you say affordable housing, what does that mean? It doesn't mean that you have to make over $100,000 like we do now. Like five points like we do probably in Swansea once they finish that, that new build.
Speaker 10: So when people say that that's just a word, it doesn't mean that's what they mean to me. It means they affordable to them, not to the majority of people. And when you have immigrants and all the other people, it has to be affordable to everybody.
Speaker 10: Currently it's affordable to everybody. Otherwise they would not be living there. So I vote for you guys. I asked you guys to vote no. Sure. Door got plenty of money, but with that money they can go like we just had.
Speaker 10: A 7-Eleven built there is already closed down. Why? Nobody supported it. Nobody wanted it. So they didn't support it. It was there maybe three years. The building still there. So if they want to brand new building door can go in there and work with the private or whoever they want to work with to upgrade that or get
Speaker 10: somebody in that building because it's brand new, right on the corner of Colfax and Monaco. So there's plenty of opportunity for door instead of to come through, knocked everything down with their developer and they raised the price up so high that they just want to gentrify it.
Speaker 10: Just forget about the black and brown in those whites that are not making $100,000 a year. Thank you for your time.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Monica martinez.
Speaker 6: Hi. My name's Monica martinez. You've heard from a couple of my staff members tonight.
Speaker 12: The Facts Partnership.
Speaker 6: It's a501 C3 that has been working on the East Colfax corridor since 2004. We have been advancing a vision of redevelopment without displacement. We've had some recent successes, and those votes have come to you all. The city of Denver acquired two parcels on East Colfax, and both of those will be deed restricted, affordable housing.
Speaker 6: We're really proud of that. And that's our vision to add higher density deed, restricted housing, where it matters on East Colfax. But we know that city finances are very restricted. And so as a result, the facts has been promoting this urban renewal area because we know that the city can only acquire so many properties and the private
Speaker 6: development is not building the housing that this community desperately needs. East Colfax renters, 40% of them are housing burdened. We have a 35% homeownership rate compared to a 50% rate in the city at large. So we know that we need development that will benefit this community.
Speaker 6: But instead what's happening is a pre that was submitted for a McDonald's on East Colfax. This community is considered the highest community with the highest health inequities as defined by the Department of Environmental Health. It is a food desert.
Speaker 6: It has high levels of childhood obesity, but instead the private market is going to build a McDonald's. So I believe we need intervention and using bold public policy that will have extensive community engagement and approval by you for any sort of tiff that's really provided.
Speaker 6: As a result, we might get something like the Mecosta project on West Denver that is a deed restricted affordable housing project that Gorman built its 42 units and it received $2.5 million tiff investment for a project that was $14 million.
Speaker 6: So TIFF was used to help get the community a nonprofit space and 42 dude restricted units. Or we might get Lowenstein, which is further down on East Colfax, and that became the home of beloved Tattered Cover and Twist and Shout records that received $3.9 million of tax increment financing in a historic rehab project.
Speaker 6: We know these projects are tough to build. And so as a result, I encourage you to adopt this urban renewal area so that we get the development this community needs and not what the market thinks that it can build.
Speaker 6: It does have it may have the consequence of increasing investment, but the facts partnership is going to be on the ground through our business support manager and our community organizer and proactively promote the kind of development we need, as well as turning out supporters to ensure that we get the types of projects that this community deserves and
Speaker 6: this type of the types of development this community needs. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up, Darian May Horn.
Speaker 7: All righty. Thank you. I appreciate the time to speak with you all. My name is Dorian Mae Horne. I'm a resident of the East Colfax neighborhood with the nearest intersection to meet me in Mountain View and Rosemary, within District eight.
Speaker 7: Well over a year ago, I went to a public meeting at Johnson Wells, where Tracy from Dora and Monica from the partnership introduced the study that would lay the foundation for considering East Colfax, bounded by Monaco in the West and Yosemite on the east as blighted.
Speaker 7: Tracy has explained at that meeting and at the very various meetings afterwards that this definition is legislatively defined and I would imagine defined with objectivity in mind. While the term blighted may seem jarring as defined, it is accurate.
Speaker 7: I work as an engineer for the federal government at the Federal Center in Lakewood, and since I aim to live a lifestyle that considers sustainability and our society's resilience, along with maintaining my mental health as our traffic increases, I use my eco pascal on the 15 hour to get to civic center and from there I use the
Speaker 7: 100 hour to get to the federal center. So every day I spend a great deal of time on Colfax as I get on and off the bus and make my way home and support the various different local businesses on Colfax, including the Barbershop that was mentioned earlier.
Speaker 7: So from the missing sidewalk connectivity to the underutilized properties, it is clear to me that the city has neglected truly public investment within this corridor. While the infrastructure of this corridor may be blighted. I echo what everyone else has said, which is the people and the culture within the broader East folks.
Speaker 7: East Colfax Community has been and will maintain its vibrancy. I was reminded of that on Sunday as I engaged in outreach with neighbors regarding a upcoming block party that will be hosted by the Neighborhood Association. I saw the diversity in terms of race, ethnicity, culture within our community, and what I believe the adoption of this plan will
Speaker 7: do is allow our community an opportunity to be intentional with how we incentivize development that aligns with our community's priorities in ways that we may not otherwise have a seat at the table. As others have mentioned, development will come to our neighborhood regardless.
Speaker 7: Without an avenue like this to have a thoughtful discussion. I'm excited for the new community organizing role that Brendan will take on at the Facts Partnership and Tracy's leadership at Dora to ensure that there is significant public engagement regarding potential projects, ideally before they even arrive here at City Council.
Speaker 7: Again, as a resident of the neighborhood, I believe we have an opportunity to have development that eliminates the blighted conditions while maintaining and supporting the local, diverse businesses that already exist in the area. I thank you for your time and I support the approval of this plan.
Speaker 1: Thank you. That concludes our speakers. Are there questions from members of Council Councilman Herndon.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. I would like three people in the queue. I first one to start with Tim Roberts, if you could come up and then Tracy and then the honorable Dr. Aguilar, I'll have a question for you at the end.
Speaker 5: So, Tim, I want to have a conversation about this vote because I think it's really important for people to understand. I wanted to give you the opportunity to speak to some of the thing. So was the vote that's happened at East Colfax, was that notice prior to the meeting?
Speaker 1: We didn't use the word vote in the email that went around. What happened prior to the meeting was what I indicated in the opposition.
Speaker 7: Letter and that was a couple of different meetings with different ones focused specifically on tax increment financing. And then we had a reading group on blight and then we had our most recent R.A. meeting, which.
Speaker 1: Was where the vote took place. I can remember.
Speaker 11: Typing out I.
Speaker 5: Have a lot of people in the queue, so I wanted to make sure I be respectful of their time. So I'm going I want to read what I'm looking at the East Colfax Neighborhood Association post that you had for the agenda.
Speaker 5: And correct me if this is not right. Yeah. Denver Urban Renewal Authority Doura. Well we'll plant. We will plan to discuss the upcoming August 26 City Council vote on the proposed East Colfax Urban Redevelopment Area and how it might serve East Colfax residents and businesses.
Speaker 5: Details of the council session are here. Page 13. So as you said, and I'm reading this, there's nowhere in this notification that you're actually going to vote, you're just going to discuss it. So this is acting right.
Speaker 1: And but it followed.
Speaker 7: On an extensive engagement with this issue and with this construct of of influences.
Speaker 5: No, I absolutely understand. But I just want to say, for this notification, it is not mentioned anywhere that you're going to vote. And that's what makes sense, what.
Speaker 1: I just.
Speaker 5: Said. So my next question is, was, did you if you're going to have a conversation about Doura, did you or is anyone from the East Colfax Neighborhood Association invite Darrah to the meeting?
Speaker 7: We did not, and I did that intentionally. We because we had already like I just said, with all due respect.
Speaker 1: I had a number of engagements with Dora.
Speaker 7: So my my intention, again, as a volunteer, an unpaid.
Speaker 1: Volunteer who is untrained.
Speaker 7: Entirely and I just started in January.
Speaker 1: Though Robert's Rules of Order.
Speaker 7: Does have my name attached to it.
Speaker 1: The the intention was to clear the decks a little bit for the.
Speaker 7: Neighborhood and not have a professional planner present at the discussion so that we could then air whatever we wanted to without being afraid of.
Speaker 1: Getting.
Speaker 7: Shot down or whatever it is again. I didn't I went back and forth about using the word vote, but I honestly thought it was so obvious that.
Speaker 1: It I, I just.
Speaker 11: You know, I just.
Speaker 5: Don't want to do it. So going to the actual vote, so what are the rules and procedures for people allowed to vote? So the the first speaker spoke to that there was not a motion. How could you said the vote was 8 to 4?
Speaker 5: Do you know which individuals voted in support in opposition? Is there a list available?
Speaker 7: There's not a list available. And I like I.
Speaker 1: Was saying before, it was an informal it was an informal vote.
Speaker 7: A show of hands. It was the end of a two and a half hour meeting. I when we wrote the opposition letter, I tried to make that clear by just saying it was a show of hands. And I mean, yeah, so that's that's really what there is not a list and it was I could probably say who
Speaker 7: who did vote for for and against. I mean, I know that John Neal voted against or for the plan and others a couple others here. So I, you know, I, I think that there is a.
Speaker 1: A major issue.
Speaker 7: In this city. Okay.
Speaker 5: I absolutely. For but I want to give I have a feeling you might you might get called up for another speaker looking at the list. But I just want to make sure I want to speak to the particulars of the vote.
Speaker 5: So thank you so much. That's all I had for you, Tracey. I wanted to give there was. I know we did. We're just all we're doing now. We're just defining the you are a can we just take a step forward.
Speaker 5: So what would be an example of something that could happen just so that the community and the people could understand what might possibly be a next step?
Speaker 14: So what might possibly be a next step provided the council approves this redevelopment plan? Is that through the outreach of the sex partnership? There is a property that is identified and a developer that is interested in developing it for there is a property that is identified in the existing owner is interested in making some type of an
Speaker 14: initial investment. If that would be the case, that person or entity would then have to come to Dura. They would have to submit an application for our assistance, starting with a letter of support from the council member that it is a project that they are in support of.
Speaker 14: We would evaluate first and foremost, is this a project that meets the criteria of this urban redevelopment plan? Does it address all of these things that I just spent a very long time walking through? If it does, then we would begin an evaluation as to whether or not it even needs public financial assistance.
Speaker 14: So there is a very stringent underwriting process that we go through to determine what amount, if any, the project would both be able to generate and therefore be able to utilize in its redevelopment. Once all of that preliminary underwriting work is done, then we would continue through an approval process.
Speaker 14: But let me pause for a moment and say through all of this conversation, it isn't just a hand off from the partnership. The partnership to us in this example, there also would be community outreach as well, and recognizing that there could be a project in one of three different neighborhoods that could be in in East Colfax.
Speaker 14: It could be in East Montclair, it could be in Park Hill. But the development is going to impact the entirety of the area. So we would be talking with the community at that time about what this project is, what it means, what is the level of support that finally then culminates in us coming back to City Council
Speaker 14: because it is a formal amendment to the plan to add a project and to add tax increment. And part of that process as well is to then enter into agreements with the other taxing entities regarding our ability to capture property tax, if that was being requested.
Speaker 14: So a lot of different iterations there. But I want to focus on on on the community outreach, on making sure that any project that comes to us, we can stand before this body and indicate how it meets the objectives of Plan 2040, of blueprint of the neighborhood plans and the urban renewal plan to then be able to
Speaker 14: come back to ask for approval.
Speaker 5: Thank you. So just to focus, though, if a community is fearful that if council approves this tonight, there will be multiple opportunities for community to hear and give input on a potential URI project. Yes. Perfect. Thank you, Dr. Aguilar.
Speaker 5: Your work that you do with Nest. I just wanted to give you the opportunity, because I've seen you in East Colfax several times as you've been working in your job. And thank you for that. If you could in my apologies, Mr. Perez, this is my last question to give you the opportunity just to to speak on the
Speaker 5: work that you have seen along East Colfax in your thoughts on the potential you are.
Speaker 10: I'm sure in in the interest of full disclosure, I came in and said we can't do a you are and these Colfax is going to gentrify it. And then people sat me down and talked to me about what it means to do you a and how it could potentially help.
Speaker 10: And what I would say is the vote tonight, in my mind, is the easy one is just acknowledging that there are bad conditions on East Colfax right now. The harder votes will come to you when projects come forward, and that's really where you really need to do your due diligence.
Speaker 10: You need to make sure that it really is about for and that what you're incentivizing is affordable housing, is affordable business space, and is not things that will lead to gentrification. I see this as a tool because hopefully it will bring more projects to your attention because as you may or may not know, East Colfax is an
Speaker 10: opportunity zone under President Trump, President Trump's tax act. And so there's already great incentive for investors to buy properties there and do whatever they want. Our hope would be that they would come to us looking for it and bring these projects to our attention and give you another opportunity to work with them to make sure these projects
Speaker 10: actually help the community. We are aware of the the fact that this is an underserved community and that we need to really build it up. And as the director of Nest, one of my goals is to see whether we could actually demonstrate that it's possible to do development without displacement.
Speaker 10: As you heard, the city has invested in two buildings in the area, one of which will provide permanent supportive housing to, I think, approximately 70 people with chronic brain injury, another which will provide affordable housing to about 80 families, including a child care center on the ground floor.
Speaker 10: Someone mentioned, and it is true that there are a number of housing buildings there that are currently occupied by immigrants and refugees. And so we are working with those folks as well to ensure that that community has the support it needs.
Speaker 10: And actually through the East Area Plan, investigating whether this might not be made into an international corridor. And so I think it really provides an opportunity for us. This will just give you another tool in your toolbox. And and I would be there with the community making sure that anything you approve to fund would be for the
Speaker 10: benefit of the community. Thank you.
Speaker 5: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman CdeBaca.
Speaker 6: First line of questions is for Ms.. Higgins. Can you explain to me there's a slide in here that shows that the original. So an idea to do these plan to do this plan is started by the city council member and a developer.
Speaker 6: Who were the original initiators of this idea?
Speaker 14: Sure. And just to be clear, the presentation that you're looking at would have been from the council committee. Correct. It's not tonight's presentation. And that is a a depiction that we use frequently when we are talking about the urban renewal process.
Speaker 14: So in this instance, and I actually was looking back at my files, this is a conversation that started back in 2015 that included several council members, predecessors, as well as members of the city administration, the Planning Department and the Office of Economic Development, as well as the Facts Partnership in their role as representing the businesses and community
Speaker 14: along the corridor.
Speaker 6: Were any of those council members or are any of those council members present? They are not. Okay. Can you explain to me the structure of Dora? Is this it's confusing to a lot of people because we call it an authority.
Speaker 6: But what I understand is that it's not a part. It's not a city agency. So can you explain a little bit about the structure? Sure.
Speaker 14: An urban renewal authority has its opportunity to exist as a result of state statute that put in place the ability for a municipality to create an urban renewal authority. That legislation was first introduced in 1958. That was the same year that Dora was created.
Speaker 14: That was a an ordinance that was approved by the city to create Dora back in 1958. Currently, we are an organization that works within through city government. As you can see tonight, there are very few, if any, things that we can do without city council approval.
Speaker 14: Our we are governed by a 13 member board. 11 members are appointed by the mayor and confirmed by city council. There is also a position for an elected school board member representing Denver public schools and there is also a position representing special districts because of the overlap between the utilization of tax increment financing and what that means
Speaker 14: from the property tax and those the impact on those other taxing entities. State statute was amended in 2015 to make sure that those voices were represented on the Dora board as well. The board directs policy of the staff and then as we work through all of our efforts, again, it is really with and through the city government
Speaker 14: to make sure that as we are affecting plans, they are consistent with the city planning objectives in order to achieve our our mission of blight elimination.
Speaker 6: And so can you explain the funding structure there? What percentage comes from city? What percentage is private?
Speaker 14: So our funding. There was a point in time when all of our funding came from the city. That is no longer the case. I want to be clear. There are two functional departments of the Urban Renewal Authority. One is the redevelopment department.
Speaker 14: The other is our housing department. Would like to have an opportunity to talk about what our housing programs do and can do in this area as well. We have been longtime partners with the city and county of Denver in implementing a number of affordable housing programs that are intended to help existing single family homeowners stay in their
Speaker 14: homes by making necessary repairs. So we have our housing department, we have our redevelopment department. The Housing Department gets funding through the contract, the annual contracts with the city and county of Denver in implementing these programs. The redevelopment department gets its funding through the projects that we support.
Speaker 14: So a portion of the tax increment that is generated on each project is made available to Dora to pay for our operations.
Speaker 6: What portion is that? Is that consistent across projects?
Speaker 14: It is. It is quite consistent. Each project that we undertake is unique. And so it is it is negotiated separately, but it is typically 1%. Of the amount of the commitment that we are putting into a project we are able to take as revenue for the the operations of the organization.
Speaker 6: And so are you guys technically a five on C three or what's your tax status?
Speaker 14: We are not. We are a public body. So again, created under state statute and I am in no need to look over my shoulder and make sure legal counsel is giving me the the indication that that is correct.
Speaker 14: We are a a quasi governmental entity.
Speaker 6: Is is that a corporation? Is that what kind of we are, a public body. Okay. So I'm going to need some more information on that from counsel, if possible. But going back really quickly to what you just mentioned, the two branches of the work that you do.
Speaker 6: Is it possible to do any of this work, this redevelopment work without the plan? It is the housing side.
Speaker 14: On the housing side, yes. And in fact, that's it.
Speaker 6: The next question, the tip piece of this. So there are slides that are contradictory. One of the slides, I think it's the second to last says that let's see the actual wording. It says that this plan does not approve the use of tax increment financing.
Speaker 6: But then on slide 15, it says that we're authorizing TIFF. Correct. Can you explain what is happening there? Sure.
Speaker 14: In the urban renewal plan, you can, again, under the statutory language, include in the plan language that allows for the use of tax increment financing. That's the authorizing language that is in the plan currently. However, we don't have a project to apply that to, nor are we asking for a tax increment area to be established at this
Speaker 14: time. That would be that secondary step. If a project comes to us, we come back to City Council. You formally amend the plan to approve the project and approve the establishing of a tax increment area that there that therein allows for the use of tax increment for that project.
Speaker 14: So one lays the foundation, that's the language that is in there currently. That's the authorizing. When we bring a project back, if we bring a project back, that would be that step to approve the use of tax increment financing.
Speaker 6: So we're authorizing it. We're just not picking where we're getting it from.
Speaker 14: You are not approving a project, so it cannot be used until you set a tax increment area and approve a project.
Speaker 6: Got it. And so it was said multiple times that the purpose of urban renewal plan is to attract new capital, primarily through private growth and to incentivize private entities to invest in the area. Is that accurate?
Speaker 14: There is a condition in state statute that looks for us to maximize investment through the private sector. However, again, we have a balance of the ability to use tax increment to advance both public projects, infrastructure projects, as well as development through the private sector.
Speaker 14: But yes, it is the intention of the urban renewal statute to look to put that burden on the private sector as opposed to the to the public sector.
Speaker 6: And the authority doesn't do housing, affordable housing development. You all just hope that the projects that start up or catalyzed include affordable units, correct?
Speaker 14: No, that is not correct. Well, we are not the direct developer. We have a requirement in any project that we participate in that includes housing, that there be a component of affordability. So in our redevelopment agreement, which is a contract arrangement between the Urban Renewal Authority and a developer, it will have a requirement as to what the
Speaker 14: affordable housing requirements may be.
Speaker 6: And what is that typically?
Speaker 14: It again, it depends by project. You know, there's been comments made about the the Wilton Corridor. The first project that we made along Whelton was 100% affordable. It aims not to exceed 60%.
Speaker 6: Which project is that?
Speaker 14: 2300 Whelton.
Speaker 6: Can you talk a little bit more about where there have been urban renewal plans and the successes and challenges of them here in Denver? Sure.
Speaker 14: I think we've had we have a number of urban renewal areas that establish a number of urban renewal plans, that establish the urban renewal areas. And then there can be multiple tax increment areas within that. They really run the gamut of the city.
Speaker 14: We have spent a lot of our time since I first joined Laura in 1992 focused on revitalizing downtown. A primary objective of that urban renewal area was to make downtown a neighborhood. Back in the early nineties, no one lived downtown.
Speaker 14: Businesses were leaving. Retail in particular was leaving as quickly as they could. At the same time, when we had just built a new convention center and we were looking for ways to attract visitors back to our city. Dura emphasized historic preservation also emphasized the importance of workforce housing.
Speaker 14: And so we have a number of examples of projects the Denver Dry Goods Building, the Bank Lofts Building, Mercantile Square, Rio Grand, all of which represent two opportunities for us, together with the private developers to acquire properties that were vacant, repurpose those as from a mixed use standpoint very frequently, including housing and not just housing, but workforce
Speaker 14: housing as well, to help stimulate overall development downtown. In addition to that, we have been in virtually every council district. Safe for you. Councilman Cashman I do not believe we have undertaken a project yet in your district. Some of the more recent projects include One on one Broadway, which again is an affordable housing development in an existing
Speaker 14: structure. On on on Broadway. We've also had opportunities to work in in the former St Anthony's redevelopment site, again focused on affordable housing and historic preservation, including a project that we are doing with the Denver Housing Authority. We have worked at Stapleton and in Lowry in being the financing mechanism for the infrastructure that supported that development.
Speaker 14: And then in in West Denver, along South Federal, we have worked extensively with the Vietnamese community on facade improvements as well as additional infrastructure improvements on those area. So we've had a number of projects throughout the city.
Speaker 6: All part of those are all urban renewal plans.
Speaker 14: Those are all we can only undertake an urban renewal project in an urban renewal area. The only way an urban renewal area is established by approval of a plan. Okay. So yes.
Speaker 6: And so on. The downtown one that you mentioned that coincided with the era of white flight, correct?
Speaker 14: I am not as I don't know what you are referring to as white flight. This is an era that started in the late eighties with the economic downturn where businesses were leaving, large retailers were leaving, businesses were closing.
Speaker 6: And the blight conditions. So at the end of this presentation, it says that it will not authorize eminent domain. But is blight a blight determination a precursor to eminent domain?
Speaker 14: Yes, in order for eminent domain is a power that is afforded to urban renewal authorities if granted by city council in order to make that determination. If we ever were in that position, there would have to be a certain number of factors of blight.
Speaker 14: The number is five that are found in order for eminent domain to be used. It is a different standard than if if eminent domain is is not to be used. But I want to be clear. Eminent domain is not being requested for approval in this plan.
Speaker 6: On a specific project. Kind of like the tiff. Okay.
Speaker 14: It just is. It's not authorized.
Speaker 6: Okay. And so if this plan is not approved tonight, you all have to take 24 months before you come back to us. Correct?
Speaker 14: If it fails tonight, yes. We can not come back for. For two years.
Speaker 6: Awesome. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman Torres.
Speaker 10: Just a question for Liz. Hi, Liz. Can you clarify the questions that were raised about this plan replacing any neighborhood plans? Yes. I'm Liz Wagman with Community Planning and Development. I'm one of the project managers of the East Area Plan.
Speaker 10: This is an ongoing neighborhood planning process to create a community driven vision for several neighborhoods along the Colfax corridor. That process is still ongoing and will be brought forward in the future to City Council for consideration. The clarity point here is that the East Area plan will supersede existing neighborhood plan, so once it is adopted, it would
Speaker 10: replace the guidance from the Park Hill Neighborhood Plan and the East Kovacs and East Montclair Neighborhood Plan. This urban redevelopment plan in no way predetermine the outcome of the East Area plan. The point that I believe Tracy was making is that a future project that comes forward once the East Area plan is adopted, that east area plan
Speaker 10: will be used also to evaluate a project. Thank you very much. All right. Next up, we have Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Madam President. Pro tem. Let's see. I guess this is for either CPD or for Ms.. Huggins.
Speaker 0: I'm wondering.
Speaker 1: It's kind of an. Along the lines of councilwoman tourist. But why are we doing this first rather than waiting for the plan?
Speaker 10: So to answer that question, I think that we feel it's really important to put tools in place that can help us achieve that equitable vision for is COVAX. And rather than waiting for the area plan.
Speaker 6: To be adopted.
Speaker 10: This sends a signal that we're looking for that equitable, inclusive growth for any project that may come forward in the future, and with the fact that any future project would have to be consistent with any adaptive plans, we think that still puts that tool in place to be used once the East Derry plan comes forward.
Speaker 1: We think that makes sense to me. Tracy. Just just to clarify, it's your position, your understanding of the reality of an urban renewal area that it neither stimulates nor prohibits growth of small business or growth of affordable housing.
Speaker 1: It simply puts in place an area for projects to be presented that would then be up to us to evaluate.
Speaker 14: That is true, Councilman. But I would add that with the framework that has been put forward, again, drawing out the objectives of Plan 2040, a blueprint of the existing neighborhood plans, it is more focused to say these are the type of projects that we want to be able to support to to again, give that different focus to
Speaker 14: affordable housing, to emphasizing the importance of being able to support the existing businesses. So that would be the only change I would make to your statement.
Speaker 1: Thanks for the clarification. Thank you, Madam President.
Speaker 10: Next up, we have Councilwoman Sawyer.
Speaker 12: Thank you, Madam President. Tracy, don't go anywhere. Just one quick question for you and maybe it's not that quick. We've talked about this a lot in the neighborhoods and at the many of the meetings that we've been to.
Speaker 12: Tell me a little bit about what is going to be different about this this time.
Speaker 14: That is a great question. Thank you. And I certainly would be remiss if I stood here and said, I think we have all of the answers about how it is going to be different. But one of the things that I think is most different and it's really a carry on to what I just answered for Councilman Cashman
Speaker 14: , is the intentionality of the city plans that again, the urban renewal plan sits atop top of that is giving a charge to each of us that we need to be thinking about it differently. We already believe that affordable housing is a really important component to neighborhood stabilization.
Speaker 14: Make sure that as there are different economic pressures, that people have places where they can continue to to live and to be able to stay in the neighborhood. I again want to emphasize, even though it is separate from the urban renewal plan, the importance of those city housing programs that Derek administers to already help, to help those
Speaker 14: people who are already in the community deepen those roots by being able to make improvements to to their homes. I think the work of the office of Dr. Aguilar and Nest is going to be very, very critical to cause us all to make sure we are looking at development differently, community outreach, trying.
Speaker 14: The Office of Economic Development is working on a predictive tool to help us try to better understand if this then what? That is a different dynamic than what we have had before. While emphasizing that, we've always been mindful of the impacts that we have had on a community.
Speaker 14: But I think we have a very different collective charge, a mandate for all of us. And as was stated previously, as a project comes forward, this is going to be a continuing dialog between and among the community, the developer, the Urban Renewal Authority, City Council, to make sure that we are trying to do everything we can to
Speaker 14: avoid those unintended consequences and see if we can in fact be successful in rising up while still maintaining the importance of the things that the community.
Speaker 12: Thank you. Thank you, Madam President.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Councilwoman. Up next, we have Councilman Hines.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Madam President. Pro tem, Madam Director. So I recognize that you are saying that that this project would supersede all plans. I want a reference blueprint anyway, because it is a plan that had a robust stakeholder engagement and has been voted into, you know, voted by city council and accepted.
Speaker 2: So while I again recognized that that this doesn't have to conform to or report to blueprint, these are things that people have said they want and and city council has agreed. So just a one of the tenets of blueprint is about land use in built form.
Speaker 2: And so can you help me or can you describe so inside land use in both form? One of the tenets and blueprint is to integrate mitigation of involuntary displacement of residents and or businesses. Can you help me explain if that is one of these charges in this urban renewal and in how it.
Speaker 14: So a couple of things, and I'm going to answer your question and then remind me that I want to come back to where you started. So, yes, it most definitely is a tenant that is in the urban renewal plan that is drawing out, again, the objectives, a blueprint to be able to cause us to think about how
Speaker 14: we undertake the work that we do in a way that meets that objective. So, yes, absolutely. And the urban renewal plan is going to be an expectation that a project works to, in combination with other activities, mitigate involuntary displacement.
Speaker 14: Now, the other thing that I want to come back to, I want to again emphasize that approving the urban renewal plan doesn't change any of the plans beneath it on that on that pyramid. So if the East Area plan is approved, it replaces that second to the top regarding the neighborhood plans.
Speaker 14: But it doesn't the urban renewal plan doesn't change the neighborhood plans. It doesn't change Blueprint Denver. It doesn't change plan 2040. Instead, we look to take those objectives that are consistent with what the outcome of this corridor is looking to achieve and call just upon those.
Speaker 14: That would then include the criteria regarding the mechanisms to to try to help address involuntary displacement.
Speaker 2: So if we were to approve this tonight and then next week, you know, obviously this is hypothetically, but we were to then consider a zoning variance in this zone. Then we would still consider comp plan 2040, Blueprint 2019, and those would be factors that we would consider.
Speaker 2: So it isn't as if we would just throw them out and and just consider this urban renewal plan in a vacuum.
Speaker 14: That is correct. And I'm going to look at Liz. Is there anything more you want to add to that? She's the planning expert.
Speaker 2: Hi. Welcome back.
Speaker 10: Hello. So just to reiterate that the the urban redevelopment plan must be consistent with our adopted plans. It does not supersede them. That going forward, any project would again be evaluated, whether it is consistent with all of our plans.
Speaker 10: And for rezoning specifically, that's one of our criteria is consistency with our adopted plan. So that would not change or would be the comprehensive plan and its supplements, which include Blueprint Denver and any area plans.
Speaker 2: Got it. So, Madam Director, I have another question for you also from Blueprint. Blueprint talks about increasing the development of affordable housing in mixed income housing. How can this let's say we vote this in tonight, how can this augment that charge from Blueprint?
Speaker 14: Sure. As was noted earlier, the devil if if the delivery of affordable housing were easy, it'd be happening everywhere. But it's not. It is hard. It is expensive. It is complicated. And so being able to bring another tool, that being urban renewal in tax increment to the conversation of helping to deliver housing and affordable housing in particular
Speaker 14: is really what we would be looking to achieve.
Speaker 2: Okay. And another tenet of blueprint is mobility. Colfax has another project going in. I think that would also help blueprint with, you know, the blueprint charge of increased mobility. Does this help the BRT at all?
Speaker 14: What this would do would be to help support the objective of of having there be access to housing and services near transit. So as BRT or any transit activity continues to occur, helping to promote development that is consistent with increased ridership with reduced use of the automobile would again be something that we would look at as the
Speaker 14: project comes to us.
Speaker 2: And one more question, Mr. President. You looked different than just a couple of minutes ago. The what is to keep other than the city council just saying no, what is the key? Let's say again, we vote this in tonight.
Speaker 2: What's to keep someone, a developer or whomever, to just immediately go for 12 storeys because they want to, you know, one of the concerns, a real or imaginary and this is I guess the nature of my question is that we will approve this tonight and tomorrow.
Speaker 2: Developers will go bonkers and we'll have, you know, 80 plus story buildings all along this renewal area. So can you help address that or so?
Speaker 14: And again, Liz, I don't don't go far. Approving the urban renewal plan does nothing to the existing zoning. So right now, that type of development is not possible because it is contrary to the existing zoning. In addition, we can help a project that comes to us.
Speaker 14: If the developer is looking to do something that is already within the existing framework of this city, they can do that. It's in these areas that are a challenge that we frequently find that there there is a project that wants to be done, but because of a variety of conditions can't be done without some amount of additional
Speaker 14: public investment. That's where we can come in and that's where we can begin to. In addition to the project that is put forward, make sure that it is meeting as many of those objectives that that we've already talked about, that it includes the affordable housing, that it pays attention to the job creation, that it pays attention to
Speaker 14: the businesses that it would be bringing and the impact that they may or may not have along others trying to effect development along transit. All of those things now become available to us if the urban renewal plan is in place, because now that's a venue for Darrah to participate.
Speaker 2: Okay. Thank you, Director Huggins. And thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. Before I go to the next member, I just want to address there were some concerns about sounds they might be hearing outside. Sound like gunshots. And Denver Police Department is calibrating the gunshot detection system, also known as ShotSpotter right now.
Speaker 1: So that's what's going on. If you're wondering about that, just want to put everyone at ease, Councilwoman Cannick.
Speaker 12: Thank you, Mr. President. Tracy, if I can ask you to come out, please. Thank you. My first question is, are you willing, from this point forward to ditch the pyramid and come up with a new visual about the plans?
Speaker 12: Don't answer just. Okay. Thank you. I think one of the questions underneath what's happening tonight is about trust. And I think evidence is more helpful than promises when it comes to building trust. So can you talk about Mary Crust as a specific example of how an area that is vulnerable to gentrification on the border between Denver and
Speaker 12: Adams County working class neighborhood? How? Al Doura and Teff were used in ways that promoted equity and give just specific examples. Don't go into the history. Just give the specific examples of the outcomes related to equity there, in particular the housing and the way they used the training funds.
Speaker 12: You might want to put the slider that shows some of the policies that it has. While you're talking.
Speaker 14: I can get past the pyramid.
Speaker 6: There we go.
Speaker 14: Certainly.
Speaker 12: And and then I have one more. So just go quick and then I'm going to ask for another.
Speaker 14: So so the Mary Chris comment site is a former convent located in far north west Denver. It was acquired by a developer. And I think this is really fundamental to the answer as well, Councilwoman, is that this was a developer that was committed to embracing these goals and objectives of the city.
Speaker 14: And the intention of that development was to create a very different type of neighborhood. It has a very unique mix of housing options, including co-housing, very focused on affordability and attainability, focused on the community around it, making it be very, very inclusive.
Speaker 14: So tax increment was used both property and sales tax increment is being captured on that development site to help pay for some of the necessary infrastructure to to support that development.
Speaker 12: And there was local food production to help address the food desert. Yes. Yes. And there was a specific use of the ETO or the training dollars to do training for folks who needed career training in construction.
Speaker 14: That is true. And in councilman, we councilman, we have changed our program. It used to be such that you could either pay a dollar amount to the Urban Renewal Authority and then we would further deploy that in our construction employment opportunities programs or the developer could create their own program.
Speaker 14: This was a circumstance where that latter alternative was utilized, where there was a program that was put together by the developer that focused not only on construction but really women in construction as well, to be able to help build that segment of our economy.
Speaker 12: And when there's retail on that site, it'll do local hiring. That will include giving the first opportunity to jobs for folks from Denver who might be in need.
Speaker 14: That is true. All of our projects require there to be participation in our first source hiring program, and that is a program that says that any new job that is created in an urban renewal project, first opportunity to apply for that job has to be made available to a low income Denver resident.
Speaker 12: Great. And then can we just talk for a minute about one of the things that's been raised and I think one of the most important concerns raised tonight is about business ownership from immigrant and refugee communities and minority business owners.
Speaker 12: And so Doura had some experience in the District three with the Vietnamese business district there. And so can you talk for a minute about how urban renewal worked in terms of there were two different projects. The first one is there was a Lowe's where there was a concern about displacement.
Speaker 12: And and I'm going to talk to you in a minute about how some of these came to be because they did not fall from the sky. But can you just talk about the two projects there and the retention of businesses and how that was arranged and how that came about?
Speaker 14: Sure. And I want to make sure you're referencing the Alameda Square project as.
Speaker 6: Well as.
Speaker 12: Langley. The later there were two different.
Speaker 14: Is the one because there are two urban renewal areas, there are two urban renewal areas and the district boundaries have shifted over time. But one of them is the Alameda Square former shopping center. That is where we worked for a very long time to try to repurpose the back portion of that property, in particular, while there were
Speaker 14: existing minority owned businesses in the front part recognizing the need for there to be balance. And so there were several starts at that that finally culminated in the back portion of the site being redeveloped as a Lowe's Home Improvement.
Speaker 14: But meanwhile, then the existing businesses that were there had an opportunity to reinvest in themselves and to improve the overall functionality of the businesses that were there to the extent they they chose to and participated in. So Kingsland Restaurant you may be familiar with was is continues to function very similar to how it did at the beginning
Speaker 14: . There were two Vietnamese grocery stores. One of them decided to leave when they sold a portion of the property. The other had the opportunity to significantly through the tax increment as well reinvest to and enhance the tenant experience as well as the customer experience.
Speaker 12: Great. And then my last question, and it's kind of a compound question, so hang with me, but some of the things we've talked about are dairy policies and some of the things we've talked about were site specific agreements or.
Speaker 12: Commitments or outcomes. Would you say that involvement from community was key to achieving both of those things? I mean, did Dara just think of these policies on its own? Did Dara just think of these outcomes and what was the role?
Speaker 12: Because I think one of the questions that folks are asking tonight is how do they really know that community can impact your agency or these projects? And so I think that I just want to have you point to where these things came from and who they came from.
Speaker 14: Sure. And and I'm going to take those in two pieces as well. I'm going to talk about the the programs that we administer. And then I also want to talk.
Speaker 12: About in the generic. Don't go through each one maybe.
Speaker 14: But understood. You understood. Most of those have been brought to us by concerns from from the community. And I'm going to define the community rather broadly where there was recognition, particularly when we were becoming more active in downtown, that as these projects are happening, where is the opportunity for that low income Denver resident to be able to
Speaker 14: apply for a job? Where is that opportunity for there to be additional resources made available, particularly when we are still in an area where we are struggling to find construction workers to work on these projects? How can this public investment be a mechanism by which we can effect these different outcomes?
Speaker 14: So it really.
Speaker 10: Almost.
Speaker 14: Always were brought to us, evaluated, and they have been longstanding programs that have had a high degree of success. That's the program side. On the project side, there's, you know, I think some of our our best projects going back, Councilwoman CdeBaca, to how do these projects start when they really originate from the community?
Speaker 14: And case in point is the Dahlia Square Shopping Center in District eight, where it was a a dilapidated shopping center that at one time had been the largest African-American owned shopping center in the region. Certainly a very, very large region.
Speaker 14: But traffic patterns changed. The center fell into disrepair and the community said we need something else. What they really wanted was another grocery store and we had to work with them to help them appreciate that just the location of that was going to make that very, very challenging.
Speaker 14: But we worked with that community to better define how it is that site could be redeveloped with them. It is now at the home again to a Denver health clinic. It is home to senior affordable housing and it is home to the mental health center of Denver.
Speaker 14: Every single one of those development aspects was met with great support of the community because we worked so closely with the community every step along the way to work as hard as we could to make sure that anything that happened on that site met with those continuing community goals and objectives.
Speaker 12: Last question not every project originates with the community. Sometimes the project originates with a developer. Yes. Would you say that there is experience, though, where the where there is a community that is organized and exerts influence both with the council as well as with your agency and with the developer, that outcomes are sometimes achieved even where the
Speaker 12: idea did not come from the community.
Speaker 6: Yes, yes.
Speaker 12: Very, very frequently. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman Gilmore.
Speaker 10: Thank you, President. Clerk Tracy. I have a couple questions for you. So do you have some examples of when there's been an urban redevelopment plan in other parts of the city? How has that affected the surrounding property taxes of single family residential?
Speaker 14: Councilwoman I do not have that direct data and that has been a question that is asked, has been asked of us before. And are the the information that we have really is limited to the increase in the taxes in the tax increment area itself.
Speaker 14: So I know that it is happening. I know we looked at the the outlying impact when we worked on the Highland Garden Village redevelopment, which was the infill redevelopment of the former ILA to site when it moved out of northwest Denver into the Central Platte Valley.
Speaker 14: But I don't I don't have specific information regarding the the direct correlation.
Speaker 10: You talked a little bit about a predictive tool that Dito is working on, and it sounds like it might incorporate some of or might be able to generate some of that information. Or could you talk more about that predictive tool?
Speaker 14: I would really prefer that that question be answered by somebody in the Office of Economic Development. I just know that in part of our broader conversations, which again, I think is a really important component of this, is recognizing that every city department, many city departments, not every many city departments have their finger on the pulse of development
Speaker 14: , whether it's Parks and Rec, whether it's CPD, whether it's public works, urban renewal, the Office of Economic Development. And it's in those collective conversations that I'm beginning to hear about this. But again, I would ask that you ask that question of somebody from the Office of Economic Development lest I mess it up.
Speaker 10: Okay. We can do that. In the slide deck, it talks about 20% of new employment growth by 2040. And I wanted to understand a little bit more what sort of employment might that be? And are we looking at how we incorporate existing residents and businesses?
Speaker 14: So that is a statistic. And Liz, I'm going to look to you as well. That is a statistic and a goal coming out of Blueprint Denver that is again trying to, as I understand, focus development along corridors throughout the city.
Speaker 14: So I want to make sure it's clear that it's not saying that 20% of all of the new jobs are going to be in the East Colfax corridor. Right. It really is across the city in those corridors. And it will be a new employment of of all different sorts.
Speaker 14: But I will stop there, Liz, and ask if you want to add anything more.
Speaker 10: That is correct. That's the blueprint guidance that generally in our community corridor is we want to see 20% of employment growth. I think one of the objectives of the Urban Redevelopment Plan and something we've heard through the East Area Plan process, is looking at opportunities for affordable business, play space, community serving businesses.
Speaker 10: There's the ability, I think, with this with the urban redevelopment plan to help foster some of those opportunities that may connect existing or future entrepreneurs in the area or small businesses to help them stay in the area and expand those opportunities.
Speaker 10: Those are objectives that are included in the plan that may help us with achieving some of those goals. So it sounds like at this point we don't necessarily have a framework, though, in how to implement that and make that happen to be inclusive of the current residents.
Speaker 10: To answer that first. I think, again, that it's an objective of the plan. So it would be something that we would be using with a project that comes forward to evaluate the project. So how is it helping to further those objectives?
Speaker 10: Okay. My next question is for Irene Aguilar. It was mentioned previously by another speaker that there's 30% homeownership in the area. What are the investments that the city is currently making to ensure that we stabilize and not reduce that 30% homeownership?
Speaker 10: Thank you, Councilwoman Gilmore. Actually, we are compiling right now lists of people who are delinquent on their property taxes. And we will be doing door to door outreach to them both, warning them of the hazards of predatory mortgages that might be approaching them and ensuring that they are aware of our programs that we have available to help
Speaker 10: with rebates. And then Office of Financial Empowerment. And that would be starting probably next week. And what exactly, I guess, is that outreach going to look like for because it's a very, very diverse area. Thank you. So for this first day, we're going to start with door to door knocking and we will leave behind fliers with some
Speaker 10: of this information on it. And a contact number to contact will hopefully do this partnership with the facts, partnership either them or NEST. And then we will ask to be giving them information on the programs that door has available for homeownership and improvement.
Speaker 10: And I understand I have a meeting actually tomorrow with Energy Outreach Colorado, because they may have some funds to do some energy improvements in the area as well. So we're hoping will be able to notify them about all of them.
Speaker 10: We have a small internal team that's been meeting probably once a month to talk about how are we going to actually get out there and do outreach on East Colfax and specific. And I'm excited that we're finally going to be getting started.
Speaker 10: And so the programs that are going to support homeowners, I'm assuming that's the same property tax refund program that we have within the city that is only at the 35% and 40% average median income level. Right? So that's the property tax program that's available.
Speaker 10: There's actually a state property tax program available as well that for those who are over the age of 65, we should make them aware of it. The ability to have the state pay their taxes, put a lean on their property, get that back when they sell their property and then ask to talk to them about some of
Speaker 10: the home improvement programs that exist through organizations like Brothers Endura. And so what are kind of along those similar lines? What are the supports for current business owners along this corridor? So are tools for business owners are more limited right now.
Speaker 10: But the Economic Development Department is has started up a pilot program this year, and we're hoping to expand the funding next year through business services to do a business improvement. I thought it would bias stands for I'm sorry, but to provide support for them through construction and through remodeling to help them further improve on their area.
Speaker 10: And then there are there is East Colfax bid, not just East Colfax, but all of these Colfax. And then the other thing we're trying to do is support the effects partnership to see if we could help them evolve to become a community development corporation so they can begin to provide funding to increase and stabilize that community as
Speaker 10: well. Okay. Thank you. I have another question. And as far if you could come on up. Thank you. I wanted to learn more. What you're hearing from current property owners or members of the Ethiopian community, specifically about what has been transpiring along this stretch of Colfax and where you see some gaps?
Speaker 7: Yeah. I mean, people overall, especially in the therapy community, are just nervous. And honestly, people are saying, we're going to move to Aurora. There is already, as I mentioned earlier, issues with small businesses being shut down as one reason or another, like the nuisance ordinance that the city has that's been used to close down small businesses that
Speaker 7: some newcomers consider an eyesore. But those businesses have been part of the neighborhood for decades. There's just overall, historically, when you look at other neighborhoods as well, our community has already been pushed out. This is, you know, a larger therapy community and a city park area.
Speaker 7: Like 20 years ago, we had a large community in five points. They're all in Aurora now, you know, and that's what's happening in East Colfax. That's the perception of what's happening in East Colfax. And all of this is happening very, very soon or rapidly, even though I know they've been working on it for years.
Speaker 7: But the other thing is all this details honestly are very confusing to a lot of people. And I know during your last meeting here, there was a passionate speech made by Councilwoman CdeBaca that really, like, got people's attention and say, oh, this is what it means.
Speaker 7: So there was also a lot of misunderstanding. And now there is a lot of alarm in the community saying, you know, we're next and East Colfax is next. And so, you know, that's why there is a lot of fear and nervousness.
Speaker 7: And, you know, some people are already making plans to to find a home or a business in Aurora.
Speaker 10: Have you gotten feedback or been part of the neighborhood outreach process?
Speaker 7: Can you repeat that?
Speaker 10: Have you been part of or had feedback on, I guess, the inclusiveness of the process so far?
Speaker 7: Yeah, the partnership has been great. They've been attempting to reach out. You know, we've worked with Nest to help reopen some of the businesses that have been closed. So we've had some success in that. But the issue is that, you know, as many times as you meet with this agency, it's an organization's first of all, it's hard
Speaker 7: to get this is a different community where a lot of the residents work two or three jobs, you know, single mothers or even the small business owners. They can't afford to hire a lot of staff so that, you know, the owners are working 16, 18 hours a day.
Speaker 7: So when there's a crisis, we'll make a call. People come out. But usually when you call people for planning, you know, the participation level has not been that great. And people just trust that, you know, a council or, you know, the good people take care of it.
Speaker 7: But there has been you know, I give a lot of kudos to the fact partnership and there's been a lot of attempts to reach out, but. This thing is very complicated. A lot of times people don't understand it.
Speaker 7: There has not been a lot of opportunities for a great deal of the community and not just the Ethiopian community, the immigrant community, the African-American community. I've talked to a lot of influencers from multiple of those communities, but not the fault of the good folks that are trying to put this together.
Speaker 7: But the reality of that community is that people don't have the luxury to actively participate and have a say.
Speaker 10: All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman CdeBaca, you back up for questions.
Speaker 6: Just a quick question for Ms.. Aguilar. You were mentioning the the state tax program and that Alene would be put on their house for the payment. And you said that the lean would need to be paid back upon sale.
Speaker 6: What happens in cases where there is no sale and the person passes away? Because that's usually what happens when a senior is seeking support.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Councilwoman. It's similar to the Medicaid program where they would when the house was sold, they would take their portion and the remains would go to the family, the remaining value built up in the home. So the hope would be that on some of these homes that were perhaps purchased for 100,000, that in four or five
Speaker 10: years they'd be worth closer to 500,000. And what was behind on taxes to be taken out of that? And the difference in equity could go to the family for intergenerational wealth.
Speaker 6: Does that require a will?
Speaker 10: The I think my understanding is that the state would take their portion and then ideally the family would have a will to say that how the low equity in the home gets distributed once the family member has died.
Speaker 10: But otherwise, the usual inheritance structure.
Speaker 6: Or if there's no will, does it go to the state?
Speaker 10: Not if you have living relatives as like. There's a a listing of who gets it next. Like if you have a spouse, even if you've only been married to them for a year or two, they're first on the list.
Speaker 10: Unless Mom has, you know, drafting something up saying it goes to my kids or my grandkids. And it really behooves people to do that, even if it's just a handwritten witness by somebody, because that still has legal standing in their state.
Speaker 6: And in cases where there is nobody identified because that's that's what happens. Otherwise, they'd go to their family members for support. In those cases, what happens to the properties?
Speaker 10: To be honest, I don't know for sure. I know we have unclaimed property funds that come to the state and so I presume it would go there, but I'm making that up. I don't know. That is a fact.
Speaker 6: And do you know what percentage of Coloradans or Colorado seniors utilize that program?
Speaker 10: Very small. I think it's not well known among people. And as you know, there's a lot of distrust.
Speaker 6: And is there hesitance to sign that leen or documents that allow that lean to exist?
Speaker 10: Yes, I think that's part of the distrust. Interesting. The only good part about that, if you will, is that when you have that line on your property, if somebody comes to try to do some kind of predatory, mortgaging process on you, it will go through the the state or the city first so that you'll be counseled about
Speaker 10: the potential risks of that.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 10: Thank you.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Councilwoman. Seeing no other questions. The public hearing for Council Bill 744 is closed. And we're going to move on to comments by members of Council Councilman Herndon.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, I got to tell you, thank you. That we don't have a public hearing for climate change tonight. You know, I. I wish we weren't having this conversation because that would mean as I leave the city and county building a hangar.
Speaker 5: Right. I'm Cherokee and I head east heading to my house on Colfax. And I see the vibrancy in District ten, District nine. Grocery stores, amenities walking. You hit Monaco and it's a virtual wall. You hit Quebec and you go in a time capsule because you go back to the 1950s when the Colfax was I-70, prior to I-70
Speaker 5: , and you still see the same services and shop that you had back then. If you're curious, from Monaco to Yosemite, from this just under two mile stretch right now, there are 21 car oriented businesses, used car dealers, mechanical shops, auto body shops.
Speaker 5: 16. I say motel's I use that term loosely. I have been in those motels and the state that we have these individuals living in and the amount of dollars that they pay to stay in there is is a disservice to those individuals that are trying to survive.
Speaker 5: And I appreciate Doctor Aguilar, because you hit the nail on the head. This conversation tonight is easy. East. Colfax needs the support. And this is a tool. And this is all it is. This is not a silver bullet, but this is a tool that will give us the opportunity to serve a community that is in desperate need
Speaker 5: of it. I don't know if you're familiar of the community planning development done because we talked about equity in Comp Plan 2040. Each statistical neighborhood in the city and county of Denver recently received what's called an equity score.
Speaker 5: It runs from 2 to 4.4, and that equity score is built on five factors. And I read some of them to you socioeconomic families that are in poverty, educational attainment, the built environment, access to full service, grocery store parks or open space health care, first trimester care during your pregnancy, more morbidity, child and youth, overweight and obesity
Speaker 5: . Mortality, life expectancy. So they took all these different factors and they spit out a number. The neighborhood that has the lowest in the city and county of Denver is East Colfax. We cannot do enough to serve these people.
Speaker 5: People that have been neglected for a very long time. And I want to applaud the city because in the past few years we have recognized that and we have taken steps to move forward with it, investments in our infrastructure with the 2017 Bond acquisition of two parcels.
Speaker 5: And I'll come back to that as we talk about housing, making investments in a community that has been neglected for a very long time. And there was a conversation about the local businesses. And we support this. We support the small businesses.
Speaker 5: But I will tell you right now, and I'll look at the East Colfax neighborhood there in this front pew, there are businesses right now in East Colfax that are not serving East Colfax. And we are using the tools that we have in place to either have them turn around and serve those communities, or we will handle that
Speaker 5: accordingly because I've been in those stores. And it's not because we are picking on a particular group of business, not because you're not serving the community. And I want to welcome any of my colleagues who walk Colfax with me, because I've done it, walk through with the neighbors to see how can we better serve this community at
Speaker 5: night picking up trash to better serve this community. When it comes to gentrification, the first thing you need to do is build housing. And that's what we're doing as a city. 83, 15, 82. Units. One, two, three, four bedroom units.
Speaker 5: 60%, Ami. And if you're curious what that means, if you are a family of four, maximum income is $55,000 and below. Yes, we cannot. These are the tools that we're using as a city to support those in this neighborhood.
Speaker 5: So I encourage my colleagues to support this, you know, so that we have another tool that we can help this community be a part of it. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Torres.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. Just a couple of comments, because district three in particular, Westford was mentioned a couple times, and I just Stacy failed to, I think, adequately mention how much of an impact that had along Alameda and South Federal.
Speaker 10: And so I just want to make sure that folks here and appreciate the amount of work that goes into both the areas and the utilization of the turfs and how it can be a benefit. But always remember that it can also be taken advantage of.
Speaker 10: And so it is the investment of the people who live there. It is the investment of the communities who operate businesses there to pay attention over many decades of what's going to be happening in these corridors. So I saw it support housing and small business development.
Speaker 10: 42 projects were done in this particular area. One directly placed affordable housing at Alameda and Irving, 98 units under 60%. AMI because the project was mentioned, 42 units, 30 to 60%. AMI and their nonprofit actively working to support the economic success of West Denver families.
Speaker 10: Significant facade improvement including New Saigon bakery and and restaurant if anybody's not been there you should the retail malls on both sides of south federal Mississippi. These were years long process to build trust with dozens of individual owners.
Speaker 10: Each individual business was an individual property owner. All of them had to be brought along to approve facade improvement in their entire retail area. This took years and involved the creation of an actual alley behind one of them.
Speaker 10: Those business owners were taking trash home because they didn't want to take it behind their business. These projects were tough. Trust did not exist between first and second generation immigrant business owners and government. Not a shock. My work there was with the Asian American Pacific Islander Commission who wanted to understand what those business owner retail concerns were
Speaker 10: . Safety and upkeep and growth of their businesses were paramount. They wanted to be able to pass down their businesses to their kids. It took years of relationship building, years of tenacity by Tracy and her team, resulting in actual renovations, actual placemaking.
Speaker 10: And now we're seeing the burgeoning Little Saigon business district start to grow there and walkability and pedestrian access start.
Speaker 6: To be advocated.
Speaker 10: For. The successful outcomes come from partners, deliberate support and trust, and we all play a role in that, especially those who live, work and really love these particular neighborhoods. So I just wanted to mention a few of the successes that I've seen in West Denver that really can result from investment in our communities that need them.
Speaker 10: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman Sawyer.
Speaker 12: Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to start by thanking everyone who came out to speak tonight. And I know it's a it's a long evening. It's a tough thing to stand up and speak. And so we appreciate your advocacy and your bravery for getting up there.
Speaker 12: I know there's been some confusion with this vote that's before us, and I believe we kind of owe it to everyone to just make sure we're setting the record straight about exactly what this vote is about. You know, it is not about the east area plan.
Speaker 12: It is not about whether to use TIF money for any project specific project along East Colfax. It's not about whether tax dollars should fund TIFF. Our decision tonight is about whether or not that's an option on the table.
Speaker 12: Whether it's a tool in our box if we want it down the road. To not have that option available to us, I believe, is shortsighted. I've been attending East Colfax Neighborhood Association meetings for a long time, and I just want to point out what a unique R.A. it is.
Speaker 12: Tim and the rest of the leadership have truly engaged this community, its community, members of all ages, of all cultures, of all nationalities. And, you know, we might not always agree on the outcomes or how to get there, but we can all agree that this is a level of community engagement that has kept the East Colfax neighborhood
Speaker 12: a vibrant place, even given the challenges that it faces with safety and affordability and the threat of gentrification and displacement. One of my aides lives on East Colfax and in the East Colfax neighborhood, so my familiarity is very, very deep and you guys are well-represented in my office, just.
Speaker 10: So you know.
Speaker 12: To say that there's a lot happening on the East Colfax corridor right now. Kind of an understatement, right? It's an economic opportunity zone. There are five active Reno's two active business improvement districts. It's two council districts. You know, they're talking about the pilot BRT program that you Syria plan is being developed there.
Speaker 12: It's home to a thriving immigrant community that brings a rich cultural heritage, but it's a place that faces a lot of challenges. The lot sizes along East Colfax are very shallow, which makes it difficult to do anything really on the land.
Speaker 12: The city of Denver requires that small businesses to tackle the significant costs of infrastructure upgrades to the alleys and the sidewalks on any parcels in this area and in all areas. But in this area in particular, and even though the data shows that the crime is down, we still have a lot of work to do.
Speaker 12: All of this adds up to significant barriers to entry for new business and development in the area. I've spoken to some of the parcel owners and most of them tell me the same thing. If it were economically feasible for them to do anything else on these parcels, they would have done it by now.
Speaker 12: It's just that simple. Denver has one of the strongest economies in the country, in one of the strongest national economies in our nation's history. Yet still right now, the East Colfax corridor is struggling. And if economic indicators are correct, we're headed for a market correction which is only going to make a shift in this area more economically
Speaker 12: difficult. So what do we do to change this? If the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result, how can we create a shift on this corridor? Like many people I've spoken with, I don't believe that doing nothing is an option, and I believe that imperfect action is better
Speaker 12: than perfect inaction. With all the economic uncertainty we have to do, we have to use every available tool in our toolbox, which is like altering the financial options in the area through TIFF down the road is an option that we shouldn't eliminate prematurely.
Speaker 12: Is there a perfect? No. Historically, it's had its challenges. But this isn't the dura of 1975. It's 2019. Jura isn't asking to use eminent domain here, or frankly, I wouldn't support it. And the scope is limited to very specific parcels that are bordering East Colfax.
Speaker 12: Tracy and her team have been working their tails off to do the outreach that is needed to be done. Discussing this with community members, answering questions, making herself available to discussions with concerned neighbors. I mean, look at how many questions she answered tonight.
Speaker 12: That's pretty amazing. You know, Darrah is walking the walk and talking the talk and showing their commitment to the neighborhood through their actions. And we have examples in Denver, like we just talked about the Vietnamese community over on federal and Alameda, where Dora was successful in revitalizing the community while still ensuring that it maintains its authentic character
Speaker 12: and that the community was not displaced. We need to make sure that as potential projects come in front of council, we vet them through the lens of equity and we are careful about the choices we make. But tonight's vote isn't related to a specific project.
Speaker 12: It's a vote to leave all the available options on the table in a time when we might be facing economic uncertainty. And this evening, I will be supporting this designation, and I ask that you do as well. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Councilwoman. Councilman CdeBaca.
Speaker 6: Thank you so much. I wanted to take a minute. Having heard these presentations, as well as having recently completed our race and social justice initiative, training as body and again highlight several of my comments from last week during our race and social justice initiative training.
Speaker 6: We discussed several times the policies that have impacted and exacerbated race and social justice injustice over time. Several times we saw that urban renewal has deepened race and social justice in our in our injustice in our country and our community here in Denver, under the guise of helping us.
Speaker 6: Here we have a plan that was initiated in 2015 through the leadership of council members who are no longer members of this body for various reasons. One perhaps being that residents did not feel adequately represented by said representatives.
Speaker 6: 2015 was also a time when we were not aggressively acknowledging and mitigating our housing and displacement crisis. We have an area of town that this plan itself recognizes as high risk for displacement. We've heard several members of marginalized groups share their fears and concerns with this plan.
Speaker 6: Tonight, through emails, through phone calls, 70% of residents are struggling to stay in the community and this plan is attempting to incentivize private development. Most of them are not owners and instead are renters. They have a very different level of access to the improvements and planning that owners have and that have been discussed on other projects.
Speaker 6: Doura is determining blight and the plan overall was not catalyzed by residents. In fact, outside of notice for this meeting, residents who are not property owners have claimed that they have not been a part of this process. There was a statement made that this plan, if that if this plan was accepted and relocation was required for displaced
Speaker 6: businesses and residents, that a feasible method exists to relocate them. That makes me very uncomfortable. I also understand that while we're not approving a TIV project, we're authorizing the use to generate funding for the promised improvements of future projects.
Speaker 6: Two Financing draws a boundary around the same neighborhood. That's asking for affordability, and 70% are at risk of displacement. To impose those necessary taxes that will effectively tax the properties in the area to pay for the new improvements.
Speaker 6: While tax increases and instability is one of the primary factors causing homeowner displacement across our city. This is already a trump opportunity zone that incentivizes private development in the area with federal dollars. A denial tonight is not a permanent denial, but a two year pause while Denver recalibrates, as we have promised our residents we would to address
Speaker 6: this housing crisis. Derek can also continue to work through their housing branch to help facilitate improvements along the corridor without the plan in place. We can also move forward with our upcoming neighborhood plans and decide if through those plans they still want to catalyze the same level of private development.
Speaker 6: I'm not comfortable with hoping that communities are organized enough to fight back and achieve the sometimes decent projects. That is too big of a risk to take right now. Knowing that all of our families are facing and I think Miss Aguilar's thoughts, while Miss Aguilar's thoughts have changed to realize how this might be used as a tool
Speaker 6: to mitigate displacement, I believe her original instinct was based on knowing the data we have. I'm going to have to again go with the many years and projects of proof. We have to show that the urban renewal plans have corrected blight of poverty by eliminating the poor, black and brown and driving them out.
Speaker 6: We need to press pause. We watched the devastation of what happened with Walton Street and the redevelopment of that area. I respect my colleagues underscoring projects that had satisfactory outcomes, and we can do those projects on a project by project basis.
Speaker 6: We know a lot of change is coming to this corner of our city. We've heard multiple tools that are being utilized by Nest and Ms.. Aguilar has been in her role maybe a year at this point. And we need to give those efforts a chance to work without using the same tool that we know catalyzed massive disruption
Speaker 6: in several areas of town. So for this reason, I still do not support this plan.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman.
Speaker 12: Thank you, Mr. President. Many of my comments were stated by Councilwoman Torres. I think, you know, I had an old saying, which is that urban renewal is like fire. It can keep you warm and alive in a winter or it can burn your house down.
Speaker 12: And it's all about how you use it. Part of the responsibility for how it gets used is on government and in particular how we institutionalize more policies to ensure that if this tool is used, it's held accountable. There were movements it took to make the policies that are in place, and we probably it's time for us to
Speaker 12: update those. I think there is pointing direction that points that way in our plans that we've adopted. And so it was not the case very recently that there was a policy of always including affordable housing and it's not a written policy.
Speaker 12: So there is definitely room for improvement for institutionalizing the government accountability. But I will always believe that it is important that there is wisdom in the community and that one of the most important things we need to go forward if this passes tonight, is to help make sure that the wisdom of communities who've gone before get to
Speaker 12: directly share their experience. With this community. So I think we need to pair the Vietnamese community that Councilwoman Torres talked about with some of the immigrant refugees in this quarter and create an opportunity for shared learning and then to create more resources for those communities that are now activated.
Speaker 12: I started tonight thinking that we were doing this too soon, that we should have waited until we had actual projects. But actually, as I listened to the discussion and all of the really important testimony tonight, I realize it's really important that we're doing it tonight because now everyone is paying attention before there's any project.
Speaker 12: And so we have to seize that. We have to resource this community with organizing dollars and the ability to self-organize, to learn about community benefits agreements and how to negotiate. And so together, we have to have accountability in government, both in the agency as well as the council, because we will vote on anything that moves forward, as
Speaker 12: well as finding a way to channel and collect the wisdom that's in the community about how to ensure that that power lives there. So I hope that those are steps we can take. I'll be looking forward to seeing what the first round of grantees are from the funding that is going to be out there for equity organizing
Speaker 12: . And if it doesn't include this neighborhood, how we ensure that there is more resources going forward. I'll be hosting an event on community benefits later this fall. I will make sure to invite those of you who are here tonight from the neighborhood to learn more about that model.
Speaker 12: And then we will continue, I think, to have an important conversation. I'm really glad the questions were raised. This agency has in recent history not had the same policies it has today, and it needs to continue to grow and evolve.
Speaker 12: And that responsibility falls on us. It is the history of this agency's evolution has been an inside and outside organizing period. It hasn't been one body. It's required both. And so I think if we continue to focus this important conversation, we can hold any future projects really accountable or reject them.
Speaker 12: And we can also make sure that the next plans that come forward potentially have even more mitigating tools built into them from the front end. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilwoman each. Councilman Hines.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank everyone for coming. It's. It's late. I don't even know what time it is. Oh, 1030. Yeah, it's like ten past my bedtime. And. And I also want to thank people for.
Speaker 2: For, you know, sharing your views and your thoughts, regardless of what side of this particular discussion you you're in. I think that this is a framework and and not an actual implementation. And I want to say, I think this is I think this is good.
Speaker 2: I think that we should have additional development, particularly if it encourages locally owned businesses and affordable housing and allows people to age in place and continue to run their businesses in place. I would also say if you're a developer who is looking at this vote and starting to salivate and think, I don't care about race or social
Speaker 2: justice, I agree with Councilwoman CdeBaca. We need to consider that as a middle aged white male. I you know, obviously, I don't I don't experience the struggle, but we need to make sure that everyone is is considered and heard.
Speaker 2: And we and I heard the our recent training on race and social justice. And if you are a developer who is not going to consider that, don't expect this urban renewal to be a green light. For me, the last thing I'd say is my colleague to my left talked about the vibrancy of Colfax and District ten.
Speaker 2: I invite all of you to come, maybe as you go home tonight, but please do visit Colfax on District ten, west of Colorado, and enjoy our wonderful, vibrant businesses. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Gilmore.
Speaker 10: Thank you, President. Clerk. I appreciate I appreciate everybody for Lee. And my comments will be brief. You know, my husband and I, our first home was at 1960 Verbena before Stapleton was redeveloped. And, you know, Saturday's was the location that we gave folks to make left off of Colfax to get to our house.
Speaker 10: And there hasn't been the investment by the city in this area at all for decades, specifically Québec and other areas. But. Really came forward for me. Today was a great conversation with Neb and. I value your opinion and I value that of the Ethiopian community.
Speaker 10: And I'm very concerned. I'm very concerned because I haven't heard tonight the plans that we need to really have in place to make sure that we are providing every resource possible to our residents and our businesses. And I can't in good faith vote on this tonight knowing that we don't have a predictive tool that is ready to
Speaker 10: roll out. We don't know how this investment will affect the property values of surrounding single family homes and businesses, and how are they going to mitigate and navigate those rising property values? How during this development we're going to keep local businesses in the neighborhood?
Speaker 10: I didn't specifically ask the question, but I purposely didn't because I wanted to hear someone tell me how for that barber shop, how for the dentist's office that was shared tonight. Where are they going to go? What's the interim plans to make sure that they stay in the neighborhood?
Speaker 10: And so with that, I'm not going to be able to support this tonight because I don't feel like there's the infrastructure in the plans to support our most vulnerable residents and businesses. Thank you, President Clark.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman Gilmore. Councilman CdeBaca, I see back in the queue, we don't generally go back around to second time programs. All right, then. See nobody else up for comments. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 3: Herndon, I swear I black I. CdeBaca No.
Speaker 4: Flynn I.
Speaker 3: Gillmor No. Hines.
Speaker 2: I.
Speaker 3: Cashman. Kenny Ortega. Sandoval. Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: All right, Madam Secretary, please cause voting in those results.
Speaker 3: Tunis 11. Nice.
Speaker 1: Tunis Lebanese Council 744 has passed. Councilman Hines, will you please put comfortable 745 on the floor?

Speaker 1: 11 days to nays. Bill 803 has been postponed to June 1st. All right, Madam Secretary, if you put the next item on our screens and Councilman Hines, will you please put Council 805 on the floor?
Speaker 2: Mr. President, I move that we take Bill 805 out of order.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. It has been moved and seconded. So this is just a vote to take it out of order. Madam Secretary. Rocco.
Speaker 3: Black Eye CdeBaca I.
Speaker 4: Flynn High.
Speaker 3: Gilmer I.
Speaker 11: Herndon High.
Speaker 3: Haynes Cashman. Connect. Ortega I. Sandoval, I. Sawyer I. Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I. Madam Secretary, please close the voting. Announce the results.
Speaker 3: 13 Eyes.
Speaker 1: 13 Eyes. Counsel zero five has been taken out of order, and I will now move that council zero five be postponed to Monday, November 3rd, 2019. It has been moved and seconded. I'm Secretary Roll Call.
Speaker 3: Black. I see tobacco. I. Flynn. I. Gillmor. I. Herndon.
Speaker 11: I.
Speaker 3: Hinds.
Speaker 2: All right.
Speaker 3: Cashman. Kenny Ortega. Sandoval, I. Sawyer? No. Tourist, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I am sorry to lead because the voting announced results.
Speaker 3: When they 12 hours.
Speaker 1: 12 hours were nay constable 805 has been postponed to November 3rd. That concludes the items to be called out this evening. Other bills for introduction are ordered, published and were now ready for the Bloc vote on resolutions and bills on final consideration.
Speaker 1: Council members remember that this is a consent or bloc vote and you will need to vote i. Otherwise, this is your last chance to call out an item for a separate vote. Councilman Hines, will you please put the resolutions for adoption and the bills on final consideration for final passage on the floor?
Speaker 2: Mr. President, I move 799800793. And it's deciding not to move. 794554726775795700768771772773781782766784 and 7804 adoption.
Speaker 1: And just to be clear, that was resolutions for adoption and bills on final consideration for the passing of block.
Speaker 2: Yes, Mr. President, thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. It has been moved and seconded. And, Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 3: Black. I see. Tobacco. I flinn.
Speaker 4: Hi.
Speaker 3: Gilmore. I. Herndon. I Hines. I Cashman. Kenny Ortega. I. Sandoval. I. Sawyer. I. Torres, i. Mr. President, I am.
Speaker 1: I'm secretary. Please close the voting. Announce the results.
Speaker 3: 1313.
Speaker 1: As the resolutions have been adopted and bills have been placed upon final consideration and do pass. Tonight there will be a required public hearing on Council Bill 744 approving the East Colfax Quarter Urban Redevelopment Plan and the creation of the East Colfax Corridor Urban Redevelopment Area and required public hearing on Council Bill 745 approving service plans for

Speaker 1: I have called out Constable 803 and 805 and under pending. No items have been called out. Did I miss anything? All right. Madam Secretary, if you please, with the first item on our screens. Councilman Hines, please put resolution 880 on the floor.
Speaker 2: I move that? God, I'm sorry. I'm with the Council Resolution 1980 be adopted.
Speaker 1: It has been moved and seconded comments by members of Council Councilman Hines.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to make a quick introduction. I saw Mr. Mauro here a second ago. I think he went over to overflow. Hi. I've heard from the press that there may be comments directed to you personally.
Speaker 2: To be clear, I want to direct all my relevant questions to the communication. Community communications. Excuse me. Community Corrections Director. Not to you personally, as in Mr. Moreau. So I think you're a good person. I think that you're doing a good job.
Speaker 2: I'm going to do my best to separate the person from the role. And if I've stumbled on highlighting that separation, I apologize. Also, I recognize that I may have a few more questions than I might otherwise normally have.
Speaker 2: I learned about this bill on Thursday when a Brownstein attorney called me to ask me for a yes vote, and I didn't know about it before then. So if this weren't a direct file to the floor, I'd ask these questions of most of them in committee.
Speaker 2: So who? My colleagues understand. So I'd like to start with some basic questions. Mr. Moreau, if I could have the director come forward. So thank you. And also the. A little bit. Also on my apology tour, just because the industry has been accused of placing kids in cages or running concentration camps doesn't mean that these kind of
Speaker 2: contracts are authorizing either one. So I'll just ask, do any of these facilities affected by the contracts place kids in cages?
Speaker 3: Well.
Speaker 2: First, let me say good evening, President Clark, members of Council Councilman Hines, to your question. No, thank you. And do any of the facilities affected by these contracts run concentration camps? No, thank you. So also, just because one of these companies is currently in the defendant of a class action lawsuit alleging slavery doesn't mean that these contracts
Speaker 2: are authorizing slavery. So do any of these facilities affected by the contracts use their inmates as slaves? No, thank you. So I want to set the stage for the next few questions. Denver City Council can either vote yes or no on contracts given to us by the executive branch.
Speaker 2: We can't make any amendments, so we asked for alterations a few weeks ago and we voted on the contract that was put for us forward. Forward to us. We now know that that particular contract was unpalatable for council.
Speaker 2: So, you know, if it was an unpalatable, unpalatable a few weeks ago, chances are pretty darn good that it will be unpalatable in six or 12 months when these proposed contracts expire. So I'd like to ask some questions to get a better sense for where we are now to set us up for a successful transition later.
Speaker 2: So what is different about these contracts versus the contracts we voted on three weeks ago? So Councilman Hines, just a point of clarification in my to respond to questions about other resolutions tonight or the one that's on the floor right now, because this is just a revival and a mandatory agreement.
Speaker 2: Oh, are we discussing just this one or are we discussing all three?
Speaker 1: Right now, the only one that's on the floor is 880. But I mean, I think if they're all in the same vein, then I think we can. You could ask questions about all of them, make comments, you know, or if someone specifically has one on another one, they will put those on the floor.
Speaker 1: And you have that opportunity at that time, too. But I think it's okay for you to answer all of them if you just wanna maybe want to clarify as you're asking, is this for all of them or a specific one?
Speaker 2: So. Mr. President, I'd also like to move 881 and 882 so that we can consider them all at the same time.
Speaker 1: I have I have thought we were going to go one at a time through on voting. But again, I think if you want to ask your questions and make your comments and then we'll just vote on them individually, if that's okay.
Speaker 2: Yes, sir. Thank you. And thank you for the clarification. So, yes, what's different about the three contracts that we have in front of us? I guess there's one new contract and then two others. Is that correct? Correct. I think there's a total of four items before council that have to do with community corrections.
Speaker 2: I'll start with 880. This is to revive and amend an agreement with Correctional Management Inc. for the fiscal year seven I'm sorry, fiscal year 18 and 19 final payment during the course of July one, 2018 through June 30 of 2019.
Speaker 2: CMI are Core Civic Incorporated provided services to an additional two individuals plus some additional treatment dollars. So as we move money around with all of our contractors at the end of the year, they exceeded their original budget amount.
Speaker 2: We moved money from underspent contracts and we were reimbursed from the state for the full amount. So. Okay. Should we go on ahead? I don't have any issues with this one. Should we go ahead and vote on it and then talk about the other two separately?
Speaker 1: Yeah, I think we already have this one on the floor, so let's just vote on it and then we'll move on to 81 and I'll kick it back to you. Yes, we think I don't see anybody else in the queue on this one.
Speaker 1: So, Madam Secretary, roll call on 880.
Speaker 2: HINES Eye.
Speaker 3: Black Eye. CdeBaca Eye for an Eye. Gilmore Eye. Herndon Eye. Cashman. I can eat. Ortega, I. Sandoval, I. Sawyer, I. Torres Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Hi, Madam Secretary. Please close the voting. US Results.
Speaker 3: 1339.
Speaker 1: As Resolution 880 has been adopted. I'm secretary, if you please, with the next item on our screens, on our screen. And Councilman Hines, if you please. Resolution 81 on the floor.

Speaker 1: As Resolution 880 has been adopted. I'm secretary, if you please, with the next item on our screens, on our screen. And Councilman Hines, if you please. Resolution 81 on the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I move 881 for adoption.
Speaker 1: Has been moved and seconded. Comments by members of Council Councilman Hines.
Speaker 2: Hello again. So I apologize. This is what we get when we get things directly to the floor. So thank you for your clear clarity and that makes the first one way easier. So what's the difference between. This and the contract we had three weeks ago.
Speaker 2: So. Councilman Hines so resolution request eight one changes the terms of the agreement with Geo Group from 12 months to six months. It's part of the strategy after the vote before Council on August 5th, where we heard the message loud and clear to me and to distance ourselves from both core civic and jail.
Speaker 2: This was a strategic decision to try to phase that plan and move it forward. It's extremely challenging, if not impossible, to transition away from six facilities and add up to 500 beds or 517 beds. So the decision here is to move in that direction with the GEO Group and this contract takes us through the end of 19
Speaker 2: . Okay. So there are 157 residents in GEO facilities, 73 at 1284 at William Street. And it can sometimes there's a 157 beds. The number of individuals in those beds varies day to day, depending upon movements there. And. Oh, geez.
Speaker 2: Okay. Sorry. My notes were my questions were assuming that we were going to talk about these together. So let's see. So the contract is for $2 million. So that means that the assuming the beds are full, which I would.
Speaker 2: It sounds like they would be at least close to full. Joe's getting about $100.31 per resident per day for this contract. Is that correct? Councilman Hines? No, that's incorrect. So the funding for community corrections isn't as simple as just the daily per diem rate.
Speaker 2: You have a base bed rate. So for every individual and residential placement, you will have an itemized per diem. In addition for the specialized program, a two way hall, the cognitive behavioral treatment program, there's supplemental funding that goes and is attached to that.
Speaker 2: We also have funding for a correctional treatment fund that pays for substance use treatment and mental health treatment. And there's a facility payment that each provider gets to keep caseload sizes down to a minimum of 1 to 20.
Speaker 2: It pays for prior reporting and for minimum staff salaries. So together, collectively, all those funding lines come up to the amount you see before you. Okay. That actually stands for several of the questions that I had about substance abuse, mental health.
Speaker 2: But all of that's included in the in this particular contract. Correct. Okay. And. Is there any additional funding source beyond this contract with federal dollars or. Anything else? Councilman Hines No, there's no additional funding provided by an agency of the government per the General Assembly.
Speaker 2: There is a requirement that residents pay what we call a subsistence. And that amount is authorized in the long bill each year through a footnote. And it requires the facilities to attempt to collect up to $17 per day for non specialized programs.
Speaker 2: So the William St Center qualifies for subsistence collection rates up to 17. As I mentioned at the hearing on August 5th, those rates are much lower than that. The cognitive behavioral program at Tully Hall does not charge subsistence.
Speaker 2: The footnote is not also in statute. Is that correct? That's a technical question, Councilman. I'm not sure it's part of the long bill that's passed by the General Assembly. So I, I, it's a legal document that establishes, you know, the funding for the state and then the parameters of the funding.
Speaker 2: It is my understanding, because I've put footnotes in the long bill before myself, that that isn't that's more guidance than it is statute. But I don't know that for sure either. So. But that's that was the nature of my question.
Speaker 2: Let's see, so that the cost to residents does not include room and board or classes or, you know, what's the average amount per day that a resident might be might pay for staying in one of these facilities? Councilman HINES So the the the current rate under this contract is $48.45.
Speaker 2: That's the that's the per diem established by the legislature. So that money travels to the State Office of Community Corrections and then passed through to the city of Denver in this case. In addition to that, you know, the residents of William Street, as I mentioned, would be required to pay up to that $17 a day.
Speaker 2: If someone is assessed at high risk and has a behavioral health issue. That's where the correctional treatment fund dollars kick in, and that's where the person can be referred for behavioral health treatment in the community or in house.
Speaker 2: The resident does not pay for that treatment room and board is provided as part of the funding and that subsistence. So there is no additional cost to the residents. So maybe this is answering one of the questions that I had, and that's as I was trying to do just the math on the court, civic facilities versus the
Speaker 2: geo facilities. And and you're saying it isn't quite that simple. I'm going to give you the simple math and you can help me and, you know, get get a little smarter about the math. So there are a total of 364 civic beds, right, 90, Ulster 120 and Diet 90 and Fox and 16 combined.
Speaker 2: So a total of 360 beds and then 157 beds and geo facilities. The court civic contract is from today until the end June 30th of 2020. End of the state fiscal year. Correct. Correct. Okay. And. If I did the simple math in the course of a contract is $6,680,446 in $0.70.
Speaker 2: If I do the simple math again, the core civic math gets $60.05 per resident per day. And again, as I said, the Jio contract gets $100.31 per resident per day. Can you help me understand why one is almost double the other?
Speaker 2: Councilman Hines So again, it has to do with the specialized program services. So as we've discussed, GEO has the cognitive behavioral treatment program that has a certain rate, I believe it's 5317 on top of the base bed so that those two numbers combine to pay for the CBT program.
Speaker 2: The William St Center is just the 4845 when we're talking about Core Civic. You have base bed rates across all four facilities. You have a sex offender population at our value program that receives enhanced dollars, you have facility payments.
Speaker 2: So of course Civic receives for facility payments where GEO only receives two. And then the correctional treatment fund allocation is is proportionate to the number of residents they serve. So, of course, CORECIVIC would have nearly double the correctional treatment fund allocation as well.
Speaker 2: So in trying to do the math, the way you're you're doing it, you're operating without all the information. And I believe it's similar to a question that Councilwoman CdeBaca asked at the August 5th hearing, and I'd be happy to sit down and walk through the funding lines.
Speaker 2: But it's not as simple as saying each resident gets X dollars per day. And why doesn't the math work? Yeah. And again, we had more time. It was I was under the understanding that that you were going to send that information out.
Speaker 2: But had I had more time, I would certainly have asked for that in advance of tonight's conversation, if I might add, this gentleman so I don't have the ability to change the per diem rates or to award more to one provider or another.
Speaker 2: The providers get the same rate, whether you're GEO or CORECIVIC in Denver or whether you're I6 in Jefferson County or whether you're Larimer County up in Fort Collins that's established by the legislature. So the only discretion that the city of Denver have is how much total money to allocate based upon utilization.
Speaker 2: We don't have the authority to change rates of reimbursement. Those are established by the General Assembly. Thank you, Mr. President. I have additional questions. I see someone else in the queue. Do you mind if I yield for other people's questions?
Speaker 1: It would be great. I appreciate that. And we'll come back to you. Councilwoman CdeBaca.
Speaker 6: Perfect segue. Segway Thank you, Mr. President. My question I understand you don't have the ability or authority to change per diem, but my question is about Denver's community corrections division. What is the full budget of that department?
Speaker 2: And the councilwoman said, Mike, just to clarify, are you talking about within the Community Corrections Department and underneath the Department of Safety, we administer three programs for the city. We have residential community corrections, which is part of the system or program we're talking about tonight.
Speaker 2: We have pretrial assessment and release services. And then we also administer the county's home confinement or in-home detention program. So the total budget for all three programs are just for the Residential Community Corrections Program.
Speaker 6: If you have it broken down into three parts, that would be awesome.
Speaker 2: I have approximate numbers off the top of my head. So the Community Corrections Residential program is roughly $18 million and that money is received from the state of Colorado. All but $600,000 is passed through to the providers. Again, we have four different providers that operate ten facilities in the county.
Speaker 2: The city of Denver keeps $600,000 to administer the program. So that's that supports the work of the Community Corrections Board. It funds positions in my office to provide technical assistance to providers as we move in the direction of infusing evidence based principles into the programs.
Speaker 2: It also pays for regulatory and audit work that's done by my staff as well.
Speaker 6: So with that 600 annually, how many staff do you guys have in your department?
Speaker 2: The allocation for community corrections is 5.4 FTE. And then just to just to go back to the question you asked about the total budget, the the direct services we provide, which are general fund from the county is approximately $5 million for the pretrial release and the home confinement program.
Speaker 6: Altogether.
Speaker 2: That's correct. And that's that's approximately 5050.
Speaker 6: Okay. And back to the 600, those 5.4 stuff. Can you describe to me a little bit more about what they do, considering we're primarily a pass through for the state dollars? When you say audits. When you say administration, what does that look like?
Speaker 2: Councilwoman CdeBaca So the model in Colorado for community corrections is one of local, local support or local control. So they're pastor dollars, but the responsibility kind of center statutorily with the Community Corrections Board. So community corrections boards in our state do two things they decide or authorize which individuals is referred from either the Department of Corrections or
Speaker 2: the courts or approved for placement. And they also make recommendations on which providers operate in a specific geographical, judicial district or county. Now, the way the ordinance reads for the Denver Community Corrections Board, it is advisory to the Department of Safety on policy matters related to community corrections.
Speaker 2: And there are roughly 94 standards promulgated by the Division of Criminal Justice, which is the state agency that has regulatory and funding oversight of community corrections. Not only does the state office conduct regular audits and visits to enforce those standards, but that's part of our responsibility as a local jurisdiction as well.
Speaker 2: So I have three staff that are compliance coordinators. And their job is to measure program performance to those 94 standards. They're also there to support the work of the programs. We view the network of ten facilities in Denver as a single program underneath our jurisdiction.
Speaker 2: We have a gamut of services. So there are times where they need technical assistance around statewide initiatives like contingency management or you've heard this term before called a matrix. It's a it's a case plan that takes into account offender risk and need and stabilization factors.
Speaker 2: So they go and watch individuals assessing, completing the assessments and working with clients on their case plans to make sure that there's fidelity to the model. In addition, I have one one dedicated FTE that processes all 2000 referrals each year from the Department of Corrections and from the courts.
Speaker 2: A portion of my salary is charged to the Community Corrections Fund to do work to support community corrections. And finally, we have a business manager that pays bills and manages the finances.
Speaker 6: Thank you. Let's see. Real quick before I pass it on. I will let the others ask questions. But I do want to get back to the community advisory group that was agreed to. With these renegotiated contracts and I know that's not something the public is seeing here in the Bills tonight, but we'd love to discuss it a
Speaker 6: little more. And so I want to save that till the end of the conversation. So I will let the next person speak. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Ortega.
Speaker 8: Thank you, Mr. President. Greg, can you just outline the process that someone has to go through to get into one of the community correction beds?
Speaker 2: Yes, Councilwoman Ortega. So on the Department of Corrections side, there are statutory eligibility requirements that one has to meet for nonviolent individuals, for individuals convicted of a nonviolent offense. They can be referred to community corrections 16 months prior to their parole eligibility date for violent offenders.
Speaker 2: That's at six months when a referral from the Department of Corrections is generated. It's typically sent to the County of parole destination. It means that person has declared that location is where they want to reside on parole. And after their release from the Department of Corrections, the referral travels to to my office.
Speaker 2: That single staff person reviews the referral. They score the referral when I say they score the referral. Denver was the first jurisdiction to adopt a decision making tool, which takes the elements of risk assessment and structure decision making to make more consistent and uniform decisions so that staff member scores the tool.
Speaker 2: It's then presented to the Community Corrections Board, and they have the authority to say yes or no to the placement that they say yes. That referral then travels to a program. Statutorily, each community corrections program also has the right to accept or refuse a placement.
Speaker 2: So essentially it's a dual yes to get into community corrections from the EOC. Similarly, on the direct sentence individuals. So there's some confusion when I say direct sentence, these are not municipal level offenders. These are individuals who have failed or are failing or not eligible for felony level probation.
Speaker 2: And the district court in Denver has determined they're appropriate for a community based sentence. So the district court will sentence an individual to community corrections. That referral will then travel in a similar way that I described for Doxey.
Speaker 2: It comes to my office and then to the board, but the community board and a program has to agree to that sentence up to that placement as well.
Speaker 8: So an individual can't say this is the facility I want to go to. That's determined by what beds are available and whether or not that opening, whoever runs that facility, is willing to take that person. That's been approved by the Community Correction Board.
Speaker 2: Correct, Councilwoman? So it's based upon sort of service need. It could be gender responsive. It could be DRC assignment. We're doing a pretty neat thing in Denver with respect to the direct sentence population. Part of the responsibilities to the earlier question that my team does is they'll review assessment data for the direct sentences, or they'll meet with
Speaker 2: the client in jail and do an assessment. And we've embraced this concept of treatment matching. We know from the evidence that if we can match a client to their assessed level of care, we stand a better chance to have improved outcomes and reduce recidivism.
Speaker 8: So. When these contracts were not moved forward. There were some suggestions by people that spoke that these clients that are in the programs could be put on ankle monitors and basically be released to go back into their homes, assuming, you know, most of them have homes to go back to.
Speaker 8: Can you just speak to what authority locally we would have in being able to approve something like that?
Speaker 2: So let's start with the Department of Corrections population councilwoman. So the parole decision is controlled by the State Parole Board, which is appointed by the governor, the Community Corrections Board, nor the city of Denver has any decision making in the parole decision.
Speaker 2: So in order for someone to be paroled, whether it be because of a decision or just because they've sort of reached a point in their placement that they're ready, that's done by the parole board. They also have to be statutorily eligible.
Speaker 2: I just mentioned a minute ago that individuals can be placed in community corrections six months prior to even being parole eligible. So if you have a client that's met that timeline, then they're not even eligible per statute. The ankle bracelet program at the state level for doxy clients is called ASP inmate.
Speaker 2: That is a decision made by D.O.C. again in terms of statutory timeframes when one is eligible. The D.O.C. has to initiate a referral. Now the Community Corrections Board does have to accept or support an individual moving to ACP, but it is controlled a referral by D.O.C..
Speaker 2: The direct sentence population remains under the jurisdiction of the court, so the court can modify the sentence, but it still requires the court to take action. So when we were discussing worst case scenario, if the contracts are not approved, individuals under direct sentences will be returned to our jail.
Speaker 2: It will create complete chaos within the courts to get them redacted, to look at the sentencing structure and make independent individual decisions on each and every direct sentence.
Speaker 8: I'm going to ask you one last question, then I have one other question of someone else in the audience. There was an article in the paper this morning, and Christina from the KRC was quoted basically giving sort of an opinion and and sort of summary of the operations of the different facilities.
Speaker 8: And I guess my question for you is, having having been with the city for so long overseeing these programs. If we did not have community correction facilities in our city, what would be the alternative to people being released from prison?
Speaker 2: Councilwoman Ortega So if residential community corrections didn't exist in Denver, individuals would have coming out of DC would either reach their mandatory release date and be ordered to parole for a period of supervision by the parole department. Or if the parole board thought they were appropriate, there could be discretion discretionary released on parole supervision.
Speaker 2: They can also be referred to ISP at a certain point, but in order to be on ISP supervision, you have to have housing, you have to have stability. You typically have to be employed and have some level of savings to support yourself in an independent living situation.
Speaker 2: So I would say absent community corrections, you would see a potentially higher rate of individuals who released without housing to Denver County. You would see a higher rate of individuals without supportive, you know, care and quite honestly don't have a place just to kind of reside and stabilize while they come back to the community.
Speaker 2: And we talk about D.O.C., but let's talk about the direct sentences, because absent community corrections is an intervention. Those individuals have failed at probation, are not eligible. So if you take away community corrections is a sentencing option. You're looking at either a county jail sentence in some cases or Department of Corrections sentence.
Speaker 8: I'm going to ask. I believe he's still in the audience. Reverend Kelly, are you still here? Would you mind coming up to the microphone? I have a question for you. Reverend Kell, you've been working in our community for many, many years.
Speaker 8: And and you work with a lot of people who have gone into our prison system and then come back out. And I just wanted to ask you your opinion about the value of us having a local community correction program.
Speaker 8: And then just ask if you have had any contact from individuals that are in the facilities. And what kind of contact that has been since these contracts had been voted down?
Speaker 9: You know, a lot of folks refer to the communication as half way out. Many of them felt that, okay, they took accountability, the ability of their actions, the crimes, whatever. And they were willing to do whatever is necessary to get to the next point of freedom.
Speaker 9: And those who are understanding what the guidelines are, who are still incarcerated, they work hard to do what needed to be done to get to be eligible to get halfway house considerations. There are those who feel like they have.
Speaker 9: Accomplished what has been asked of them. There are those who are feel a sense of redemption. I am sorry. What do I need to do to make this right? How do I go back to my community and deal with, you know, make it in the establishment of a new life?
Speaker 9: And so once they are eligible and for a halfway house scenario, you know, many of them are motivated and motivates them to continue to stay focused on what they need to do to get there. And there are many who would call me and call my office and maybe somebody could help me understand what a pre you have
Speaker 9: a prepaid collect phone call that that doesn't even sound right in the same sentence you know, because I'm still paying for it. But but they call me, they say.
Speaker 4: Rev, man, I.
Speaker 9: Finally became eligible to be considered to go to a halfway house. And they are doing what? And I accomplished this. I understood that. So it's been a motivator for them to, you know, to get to the point of being halfway free, those who finally, you know, get that call from the controllers.
Speaker 9: In our case, managers said that because of your accomplishment, you're eligible. You're getting ready to make the next move. And those are just excitement that you would think that these are criminals, these are convicts, these are but they are those people who are really trying to deal with redemption.
Speaker 9: And so as they find themselves making that transition, getting to the halfway house and being it truly hall and being at William Street, you know, has been two of the ones that I've been dealing with, knowing what core civics Dahlia Fox, you know.
Speaker 4: Those those guys.
Speaker 9: And the girls over at William Street, they said, man, I'm finally here. I'm finally able to come back to the community, you know, that I've done harm to and to try to make things right. Listen, in the wake of all of this that have just happened over the last couple of weeks, I've been inundated with calls and
Speaker 9: of concern from grandparents, from significant others, from kids saying, okay, what does that mean? Does it mean my mommy daddy going back to jail? Does it mean that those who are finally made the oh, and your mate made the did what they needed to do to become eligible for this?
Speaker 9: That means they're on hold their on state. There's a lot of people who are in jail right now. It's a real what do we do? Grandma said, what do we do? Why? Significant upset. What do we do?
Speaker 8: We're talking about the wait list. The people that are.
Speaker 9: Waiting and waiting. Yes, those. So it was just and then, you know, you know, beyond all that, my thing is, even if we are talking about taking it from the private sector to the nonprofit and all of that, the thing is, if that's going to happen, it's going to happen.
Speaker 9: But what do we do between now and that time? That has been the biggest concern that many of these grandma and people who call me. What do we do within this period of time if they are talking about consideration of putting things together until other things happen?
Speaker 9: Okay. That's one thing that we look at, you know, but when you've got a couple of people who said, what's the point? I have lost faith in the system. I've told been told what I needed to do to get to this next level.
Speaker 9: Now, I've done all of that. Now what? Now what? Now. Just like that. The carpet could be pulled from up under my feet. And you know, now, when I say that we are dealing with a big problem of immigration and whatever is a little bit up there.
Speaker 9: Okay. But I am speaking for those who feel like we are just collateral damage in this war. We are down here, you know, and nobody's talking. And maybe even right now to be in a position to talk with the ground people, the people down here, what do we do?
Speaker 9: What we do? You know, now, I would like to think that the city council, once you made this vote, you looked at the overall picture and considered that, okay, if we stop this, what do we do? What do we do?
Speaker 9: So speaking, that is our take. You know, I think those of you who know me over the years, you know, unless I feel really adamant about a cause and reason, I even say that I'm a victim. Won't say a victim.
Speaker 9: No, no. I take that back. You know, I went through William Street almost 40 years ago. I knew the value I would in to the system. What a college degree. But yet I found myself going through the system.
Speaker 9: And one of the part of the system was at William Street, the months I spent there, and I had to just understand what I had to do to get to the next point of freedom. Being able to show the city, show other folks here myself that I'm willing to do what it took to get to the next
Speaker 9: level.
Speaker 8: Thank you for that input. I appreciate it. I have no further questions.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Ortega, before I go to the next councilmember, I know we have some new people have come in since I made this announcement, but our fire code does not allow people to stand in any of the aisles, including that back aisle.
Speaker 1: So either need to squeeze in or we have overflow next door and 432 down in 391. I know there are a lot of people here for this item. And so if you're not here for this item. You know, please grab a seat and overflow so that folks who are here can grab a seat now.
Speaker 1: And I'm sure that seats will free up as we move through our agenda. I would appreciate that so that we can just make sure that the fire department stays happy with us. Councilman Cashman. Thank you, Mr. President. Greg, thank you.
Speaker 1: So what we keep hearing the number of 517 beds. Does this mean over a year's period of time we serve 517 residents in those beds? Or is there more or less? Well.
Speaker 2: So Councilman Cashman so it's actually more so when we talk in terms of of language of bed, that bed will typically flip over almost twice in a year, roughly 6 to 8 months for a male in community corrections.
Speaker 2: If they're successful, they'll leave after 6 to 8 months in placement. And for females, it's 7 to 9. So anywhere between 1.5 and two times that bed will flip over. So you're talking closer to 900 to 1000 individuals that are affected.
Speaker 1: Over the course of a year. Thank you. The other question I have. I've been on a committee for the past year and a half or maybe two years looking at the possibility of reinstituting in-person visitation in our jails.
Speaker 1: And I know we're moving towards that slowly out at county and a little bit more slowly than that at the downtown detention center. Can you explain today if a significant other a friend, a family member, a child wants to visit someone who's in our city jails?
Speaker 1: What is the process?
Speaker 2: Councilman So are you asking about the visitation for the city jails or for community.
Speaker 1: Corrections city jails? If someone's in jail now.
Speaker 2: Then I can't speak to. I don't. I would ask someone from the Denver Sheriff's Department or Director Riggs, maybe. He just stepped out. Well, but I believe they're not in person, obviously.
Speaker 1: So I can tell you for I think the last decade or.
Speaker 0: More.
Speaker 1: Because of concerns over contraband coming in to our jails. The option, there's been video visitation. So you go down to the jail lobby and there are video screens and the inmate is on a video screen inside their pod.
Speaker 1: And that's the the current method of visitation. So it is if someone's in our halfway houses, what's the visitation option there?
Speaker 2: Yeah. Thank you for that question, Councilman. So every facility is going to have slightly different processes to approve a visitor. But generally speaking, family and even support systems friends can visit in person at the Community Corrections Program as a resident gained stability and progresses in their treatment plan.
Speaker 2: They are also allowed to go home on short window passes or 4 to 6 hour passes. So as we begin that stabilization of reentry, there is a connection to family. I know it's not a program that's affected by the decision tonight, but I'd also talk about, you know, the contract is coming up for the University of Colorado
Speaker 2: and the Arts program. Here you have a program, the haven, that works with women who have severe addiction. They can be pregnant or even have infant children that can live on site with mom where treatment is provided, a mom daycare is provided to child and then mom and baby connect.
Speaker 2: So there's tremendously tremendous advantages to kind of in-person visitation for family and children and community corrections.
Speaker 1: Right. And I would just offer, since our on this topic that the reason we're looking at returning to in-person visitation is because of the evidence that how important that is to the family members as well as the inmate that that in-person contact take place.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. President. That's all I have. Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Torres.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. I miss tomorrow. Can you talk a little bit about how.
Speaker 6: Our capacity has changed over the.
Speaker 10: Years and how long we've been at 700 or so? Has it grown? Has it dropped?
Speaker 2: So Councilman, community corrections has had periods of growth. You know, the program itself was was developed in 1974, and we started with programs at William Street Center at Independence House because. I believe there were another program or two at the time.
Speaker 2: And we stayed relatively in that 3 to 400 bed range until about 2001, two and three, where we saw additional facilities come online at that point. Community corrections was again expanded in 2008. There were. Four facilities that qualified for an expansion proposal that required a change of the zoning code, increasing the number of residents at each facility
Speaker 2: in four locations. So the cap is raised from 60 to 90 a course of Fox and 60 to 120 at three other programs. But since 2008, there has been no additional bed capacity expansion in Denver.
Speaker 10: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. All right, Councilman Hines. Looks like we're back to you.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. So I realized in my notes that I'd neglected one silly question. Well, one question about. Slavery just about the Constitution. So in 2018, Colorado amended its constitution to remove slavery entirely from the Constitution, including for those convicted of a crime.
Speaker 2: So is it possible in Colorado to require work for people who have been convicted of a crime in Colorado? You're asking, Councilman, what happens in the residential facilities as far as work assignments? I would defer to a city attorney to interpret sort of a ruling there.
Speaker 2: Fair statement. Okay. I'll just I can respond to to what happens as far as in the facility. Sure. Yes. Thank you. Yeah. So, you know, as part of living in a home. Right. We all have chores. So that's replicated in residential community corrections programs.
Speaker 2: Individuals are assigned chores. Wiping down a wall, wiping down a table, cleaning a restroom. They cannot make any facility improvements. They cannot add value to the program. They may paint internal walls and they may do other odds and ends, but they're not there to provide any service that increases the value of the facility.
Speaker 2: So like painting fences or outside or repairing fences or pest control, nothing along those lines. Yeah. Councilman So I'm actually glad you brought that up because that was reported in an article that there had been an allegation of an individual or set of individuals to erect a fence at one of the facilities.
Speaker 2: I had my team go out and visit all the sites today and talk to residents and examine what's going on according to the individual that completed that chore. He volunteered to raise a single pole on an existing fence and was happy to do so.
Speaker 2: And pest control. There's nothing that like they would leave that to a professional or something along those lines. Yeah. Councilman Hines, we've actually looked at pest control records specifically at Corecivic Fox recently and can see that monthly there are exterminator visits.
Speaker 2: So we pull that information and look as well. So that's done professionally as well. Okay. We've also received documents about the quality of the meals provided to residents there, alleging that the meals are substandard and that there isn't an adequate amount of food available to residents.
Speaker 2: So just are meals provided to residents, is there? There was specifically about cereal if if someone wanted to eat cereal, is milk available to the resident? If someone doesn't want cereal, are there other breakfast options available to the residents?
Speaker 2: Councilman Hines So the one of the one of those 94 standards speaks to nutrition and dietary values. So the facilities are required to provide three meals per day. One of them has to be a hot meal. The other two can be breakfast cereal or, you know, a sack lunch if the folks are going out to work.
Speaker 2: But they're all approved by a dietitian that's reviewed by my staff and the state. So the nutritional value is there. I can't speak to the taste. I'm sure it doesn't taste very good. But yeah, so I think taste is an opinion anyway.
Speaker 2: So I recognize that. But so because that's a requirement, is it? I mean there's, there's a requirement and then there's what actually happens. You're saying that it actually the requirements are followed through and the Denver facilities. I'm saying that we review those requirements, and if they're not followed through, it'll be a finding in an audit report.
Speaker 2: Okay. Thank you. So I, I mentioned documents that that we've received. I'd like to give you an opportunity to respond to them. And again, if we could do this in a different form, I would prefer that. But here we are.
Speaker 2: So one of the one of the documents that received there was a I'll just quote it quote, I'm here I'm currently here on nonviolent charges, and I've done everything they've asked me to do. The problem is, they want you to go through a matrix to get out of here.
Speaker 2: And the case managers drag their feet to make sure that you have to stay here longer than need be. Is that I am concerned about the quote because, you know, it says the system is set up to maximize the stay and maximize the profit.
Speaker 2: And I would I certainly think that we, you know, having rehabilitation as a place, you know, has a place. And I think that taxpayers would say, you know, that that's a wise investment of taxpayer dollars. I'm not sure that it would be a wise investment to pay for for profit prisons.
Speaker 2: So I would just want to give you an opportunity to respond to that. Sure. Councilman, so a couple of things. The concept that programs would extend a placement for profit motive. If you think about it, it's a logical there's over 230 people on the waitlist today waiting to come into the programs.
Speaker 2: There's 59 in our jail waiting to come into the programs. So there's no shortage of somebody to to fill that bed. The matrix that you refer to is an evidence informed strategy that was developed by the State Division of Criminal Justice in consultation with programs and community boards to standardize how clients move through a program.
Speaker 2: We wanted to make sure that if you were placed in program A or program C, you received the same level of care. That matrix consists of both stability and risk reduction measures within it, and so individuals are going to move at different paces.
Speaker 2: I don't know, because it was an anonymous complaint as to that person's status, but if they're moving on the dock side, it might be because they're not eligible or the parole board didn't parole them. If they're referred for ISP, it could be that DOC hasn't completed the home investigation to approve that placement.
Speaker 2: Typically on a direct sentence, they move pretty quickly to nonresidential supervision. And you mentioned 6 to 8 months for mail, 5 to 7 months for female, or do I have this backwards? You're close to a male is 6 to 8 months roughly for a general population client and 7 to 9 for a female resident.
Speaker 2: And and you're right. These are anonymous. These quotes are anonymous to me. And it sounds like to you as well. We did have a third party verify that these actually are quotes from people who are in one of these facilities.
Speaker 2: It doesn't mean that the quotes are accurate, just that someone in one of these facilities said it. So I'm going to give you another opportunity to respond to a quote. Quote Right now, I'm appalled at their behavior as they're using residents all day, every day to make the place look good and presentable.
Speaker 2: When for months I was here, they had toilets that overflowed. No sitting outside, 20 prairie dogs living in the back, no utensils to eat with many times, not if not enough food for everyone to eat, end quote. So I just want to make sure that we're maximizing treatment and reentry instead of profit for a for profit corporation
Speaker 2: . Councilman, I can appreciate that. And that's why, you know, the Community Corrections Board in my office take those complaints very seriously. You know, we we touched a little bit upon the level of regulation in addition to the State Division of Criminal Justice and their Office of Community Corrections.
Speaker 2: You have the Community Corrections Board, you have my office. You have building inspections with the city, you have neighborhood inspections with the city. You have a Department of Corrections liaison that is assigned to each facility. You have a judicial department, probation officer that's a liaison on the court side.
Speaker 2: You have the Office of Behavioral Health that completes audits of these programs. So I think everybody is committed to ensuring that clients are safe and that they have an opportunity to to make the changes that we all seek.
Speaker 2: You mentioned a lot of inspections, and I wasn't able to get them all. But but you mentioned building a neighborhood inspections. How often do those occur? I believe for a neighborhood and building, I think they're I believe their annual.
Speaker 2: And then if there's a finding, there's a follow up. And is that through corrections or is that you saying that's just a function to the city? No, that's to the city. And as a function of the role of these buildings, not as.
Speaker 2: And just because it's a building in Denver. Correct? I mean, so Councilman. So the I mean, I guess what I made the point that I was making is that the buildings are looked at by the appropriate officials for safety and security.
Speaker 2: You have correctional professionals locally and at the state looking at it from a client care perspective. You have licensing agents, the division of Behavioral Health. If it's a substance use or mental health program, licensing them, ensuring that the quality of care is too standard.
Speaker 2: Okay. Still going. Sorry, Mr. President. So another quote that I had and it says, The sad thing is that I work a ten hour day and I have to come back and have mandatory general inspection cleaning every single night in order to have this place looking good.
Speaker 2: Is is there what is mandatory general inspection cleaning and is it every night, Councilman? I think I wrote that complaint because after working a 12 hour day today, I have to go home and clean my house with my wife.
Speaker 2: I think we all have chores. And that's the point is, is these are chores. These are not, you know, completing facility renovations because, you know, someone's profiting on me being in placement. They might have to mop the floor.
Speaker 2: They have to keep their room tidy. These are just basic life skills to running a facility and quite honestly, a behavior that should be reinforced as people reintegrate from an institutional setting into independent living. And see, I think the next quote is, has already been asked and answered.
Speaker 2: So let's. I think I want to yield the floor one more time to Councilwoman CdeBaca if if she has additional questions or whoever's on the list.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman CdeBaca.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I actually would like to bring up two people, and while they come up are Candace Bailey and Dr. Calderon. I would like to make it clear that we are not the concept of community corrections is not on trial tonight.
Speaker 6: I think that we all agree that community corrections are necessary and provide an extreme benefit to our our folks reentering society after incarceration. I think the issue tonight is really about the corporations that indeed are profiting off of community corrections.
Speaker 6: Mr. Morrow said that these chores are not because someone is profiting off of this labor, and I disagree completely. That is exactly why we are working with private prison companies because they do see a bottom line benefit in this work.
Speaker 6: I would love to ask Candace Bailey, who herself has some experience with these facilities, to speak on her experience because unlike many of the people who may be in this room currently in corrections, she is no longer in corrections.
Speaker 6: And I think that that is a protection that people who are speaking out don't currently have. A lot of people who are currently in community corrections don't have the luxury of being the whistleblowers. In fact, we have had many who have blown that whistle anonymously, and Dr. Calderon will speak to some of those complaints.
Speaker 6: But we are very concerned that even after these contracts go through, that those people will be retaliated against for speaking out on their experience. And so I do want to ask what remedies are possible to make sure that our offices are getting monthly reports on who is being sent back and why, just so we can track and
Speaker 6: make sure that nobody is being targeted for telling the truth about their experience. Ms.. Bailey, would you mind telling us a little bit about what you know of these facilities, specifically the women's ones that you've encountered?
Speaker 10: So. Excuse me. Council City. So my history goes way back. I was incarcerated. I was in the Department of Corrections in the early 2000s.
Speaker 3: I ended up going to a halfway house here locally. I ran the gambit and I regress myself.
Speaker 10: From the halfway house. Many people would say, why you met all the criteria that Mr. Morrow had talked about. You had worked so hard to get everywhere that you wanted to be. You had children to go home to.
Speaker 10: You had an objective. I had an education behind me. I was ahead of the curve. However, I had a violent crime, which put me way at the bottom of the list. So when you talk about placement into community corrections, you have to think about the fact that the Department of Corrections is an overarching adversary and they have
Speaker 10: their own set of rules, and then people are funneled through this system that Department of Correction has. And you've got to go through. Could be any of a number of things, many that we won't discuss while I'm at this podium, because it is the dehumanization while within those facilities that carries over into our communities.
Speaker 10: We're talking about community corrections. We were talking about placing a new form of penitentiary in our community. So I'm looking at some of.
Speaker 3: My sisters over here because I understand where you are. I have been where you are. I am on the other side of the fence. And I say to you, if we do not examine.
Speaker 1: Our rules, if you could just address counsel and not the audience.
Speaker 10: Thank you. I apologize. I believe that what happens next is dependent not only on what the city council believes and what they do next, but also in what we do next as a community, as a city, as a state, as a country.
Speaker 10: We have the opportunity in front of us to change everything. We have community members who are out here doing the work who have experience from inside of the walls. It is proven that peer to peer advocacy is the greatest impact.
Speaker 10: We're behind. We're far behind. We are one of eight states who has not adopted this into what we do, into what we do. I actually work in the Division of Youth Services as a family advocate, and so I am the epitome of what we should be moving to because I have the experience, the understanding, the education, the
Speaker 10: knowledge and the community presence. I know what the issues are that the woman here face, that the men who are in community corrections face. We have the opportunity to have community led co-ops to look into during this time while our contract is now being approved for the next 6 to 12 months.
Speaker 10: What are we doing? We have a timeline where we need to look at land and zoning. We have to look at this. We are not warehousing human beings. We are human beings. We want our human rights back. Okay?
Speaker 10: We are not less than you.
Speaker 3: We are equal to you. We actually pay. We pay taxes for this.
Speaker 10: And so there is something that is happening when there is a trifecta of payments. So you're getting payment from the federal government, you're getting payment from the people who live in the city and county, and you're getting payment from the people who need to come back out and be supported, loved and embraced by our communities to be
Speaker 10: healthy members of society. And we are failing with a big fat F based on profits and not people. There are human beings who are affected on all sides of the fence. And during this time that you were looking at these contracts, I implore you to look at the human beings, because those testimonies that you're hearing that are
Speaker 10: anonymous are afraid of retribution. They are afraid. You get food in these places. This is not for human consumption. Okay? Now we can either feed the system.
Speaker 3: Or we can do something completely different. Completely. It is our.
Speaker 10: Choice. We will lead the country and we have to take the steps to do so. We have to.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Because you. I'm sorry, Councilman, could you just state your name for the record so that we have it on the official record?
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 10: I apologize. Candace Bailey.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you.
Speaker 6: Dr. Calderon, can you speak to some of those anonymous complaints that we've been getting via phone, via letter, via email regarding the conditions in the facilities in question? Lisa Calderon, chief of staff.
Speaker 8: For Councilwoman Candi CdeBaca, also have a doctorate in.
Speaker 10: Reentry and best practices.
Speaker 6: First, I want to just say I want to thank the folks who do this hard work of reentry, reintegration, rehabilitation. It is hard work. I know I've done it and I know it's often thankless. And I know that people often critique your your work.
Speaker 10: You're working long, hard hours.
Speaker 6: We're also standing up for those complaints, those complainants who do work in these facilities. Who have been afraid to speak out in about these facilities, about their working conditions, about their long hours, about not being fairly compensated, including for the breadth of training, experience and degrees that they have, including hearing from some of them who hadn't been
Speaker 6: paid until the negotiations for this contract started moving forward. So we're also standing up for the rights of workers.
Speaker 8: As well as.
Speaker 6: For the rights of residents. So I want to make that clear. The kinds of complaints we've also been getting from residents. I think Councilman.
Speaker 10: Hines pointed many of those out, but they run along.
Speaker 6: They run along the kind of themes of basically labor that when you have worked an eight or ten hour day and having to come home to do chores. These are adults. These are not children. And I would like to see the evidence that shows that making people do disciplinary chores makes them a better person.
Speaker 6: That's not actually what the research shows. Right. So I'm a big believer in cognitive behavioral approaches. I understand that some of the facilities actually implement that, but chores is not part of that research. We've also heard around having chores that were potentially put people at risk.
Speaker 10: Such as clearing out prairie dogs and things like.
Speaker 6: That, things that they should not be required to do and are potentially a violation of labor standards. So for those reasons, we are.
Speaker 10: When we met with director Greg Morrow and.
Speaker 6: Executive Director.
Speaker 10: Of Public Safety Troy Riggs.
Speaker 3: One of our non-negotiables.
Speaker 8: Was to.
Speaker 10: Have a hotline.
Speaker 6: For complaints. And Greg outlined kind of all of the oversight committees or.
Speaker 10: Agencies.
Speaker 8: That oversee the these these residences.
Speaker 6: But that's a bureaucracy upon bureaucracy. Upon bureaucracy. And what we're hearing is that people don't feel safe going to these bureaucracies. They also don't feel safe when they cannot report anonymously. And people know that they have to go through a process of inquiry.
Speaker 6: They're not asking us to automatically believe them. What they're asking is, please look at this, pay attention. Please investigate this because we are afraid. In fact, we even had a resident report to us that.
Speaker 10: Their cell phone.
Speaker 6: Was taken away by a civic.
Speaker 8: By civic administration.
Speaker 6: Look through their emails and texts to see if they had been corresponding with Councilwoman, see the box office. And once it was confirmed that that person was, they basically let them know in a nice way that we see what you're doing.
Speaker 6: And, yes, you have a right to complain. But the very nature of taking.
Speaker 8: Someone's phone for exercising.
Speaker 6: Their rights to be.
Speaker 8: Heard and their freedom of.
Speaker 6: Speech is quite disturbing.
Speaker 3: That is and also also not.
Speaker 6: An evidence based.
Speaker 8: Practice for reintegration.
Speaker 3: And then finally, I just want to say, you know, I want to.
Speaker 6: Make sure that this false narrative gets debunked, that it's either these halfway houses as we're currently conceiving them or nothing. We know that people do better coming out of incarceration when they have transitional services. That is not in dispute here.
Speaker 6: The question is what kind of transitional services are effective? And we have a transitional housing halfway house model that is based on an old standard. And so what we need to do is re-envision.
Speaker 10: How we have halfway houses.
Speaker 8: As opposed to warehousing.
Speaker 3: The fact that we.
Speaker 6: Zone halfway houses in warehouse districts tell you how we value people coming out of incarceration. So let's stop with the false.
Speaker 10: Narrative that no one wants transitional.
Speaker 6: Services people do. The question is what kind and should a private corporation be the one to lead that? We are you know, it should be community based. And one last quick point. Our pioneer for halfway houses was the late, great Dr. Elaine Smith, who opened a group living in five points.
Speaker 10: A black woman.
Speaker 6: We need to get back to the roots of community based reentry, rehabilitative and residential services. We've done it before. We've had county run community.
Speaker 8: Corrections as late as.
Speaker 10: 2013.
Speaker 6: In our city, we need to go back to that. Thank you. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman Hines.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. So I want to direct to Riggs I'm sorry to her tomorrow. We we had our conversation on the 5th of August, if I'm getting my dates correct. The next council meeting was the 12th, and we discussed two premises on steel in Council District nine.
Speaker 2: They were zoned i a and we asked several questions about those two particular premises and with regards to whether they could house halfway homes. Are you are you familiar with those particular properties? Councilman Hines I'm familiar with one, I believe, and we followed up to the request from the floor the night of the fifth.
Speaker 2: 4650 still was the address. And according to community planning and development, there are space and buffer issues. With that site being zoned. It would require a variance from the Board of Adjustments and we provided that information to Councilwoman CdeBaca.
Speaker 6: Sorry. And, and it was definitely within a space that where that would be granted. It's significantly far from actual residences. It's behind the old pilot off of I-70 and Vazquez and I don't see why the use would be a problem when all of these other facilities are much closer to residences.
Speaker 2: So I think the question becomes, can it be done without action of the Board of Adjustment? And the answer to that is no. So it would require a variance. Okay. And so I also think you I want to echo what Councilwoman CdeBaca said and Dr. Calderon as well, that what is.
Speaker 2: And a concern for me is not about reentry services. My concern is making sure that we were stewards of residents of Denver and the taxpayer dollars. And I want to make sure that we put people above profit. And and we've had I mean, it's well-documented that these companies at a national level are problematic.
Speaker 2: I think that's a very careful word to use. They've been a result of numerous lawsuits, settlements and nationally and even here in Colorado. And we just want to make sure that that we're doing right by the people here in Colorado and by the end and the residents in Denver and the taxpayers in Denver.
Speaker 2: So I am absolutely on board with with the the concept of community corrections and halfway houses. My concern is, is these particular vendors. So at. I hope that if we do renew these contracts this this evening, that that the message has been delivered that we're very interested in and ensuring that we have vendors that are good actors
Speaker 2: and good stewards of taxpayer dollars that work responsibly. So thank you. And I'm sorry, would you like to say anything about that? I actually have a question for President Clark. May I respond to a statement that was made by Dr. Calderon?
Speaker 2: I think it's important to just provide the an accurate fact about salaries that, you know, when it comes to geo, of course, if I just want the council have the information.
Speaker 1: Good.
Speaker 2: So if I heard correctly, the statement was that salaries were only increased in during this contract negotiation period. That's not accurate. I will tell you that Core Civic originally and then Geo followed suit with raising the starting salary for both their entry level security staff and case managers long before these contracts came before council.
Speaker 2: Such as? They're not here. They're in the audience, but they're not at this podium. And I just want to be transparent and honest with this council. What happened there?
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Hinds, are you all done?
Speaker 2: I'm sorry. I have one more question. Does a burn? The Columbine facility has 60 men, correct? Correct. How many showers does it have? I don't know. Off the top of my head is the answer one. No, no, no, no.
Speaker 2: There again, there's a standard. There's a standard that governs the number of of toilets, showers, sink basins. I can ask the corps civic representative who's in the audience if you want the exact answer, or I can follow up.
Speaker 2: But the answer is not one.
Speaker 6: That's that's not accurate. I went there. I live across the street from me. And I asked them and they said that there is only one shower, that there's multiple heads. But because of the the the the Rape Protection Act or whatever, they can't shower more than one person at a time.
Speaker 6: So it's functionally only one shower for 60 residents.
Speaker 2: May I? May we call?
Speaker 1: Do we have the folks from course, the vicar in this facility who can respond to this?
Speaker 10: Thank you, Shannon. Class with Core Civic. To answer your question about showers on top of my head, I am not aware how many showers are, but they do meet the DC standards and there are one shower room with multiple heads.
Speaker 10: You're correct. And then there's another shower room that has one for 88.
Speaker 6: So what does that mean functionally? How many of those showerheads can be used at one time? Everyone that's in there.
Speaker 10: I would say it's a lot more like a gym locker room type shower.
Speaker 6: That's thank you. But that's not what the staff there reported, nor the residents there.
Speaker 10: Okay. I'm sorry. That's what's accurate.
Speaker 1: Councilman Hines Jordan.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Councilman Ortega.
Speaker 8: I have three questions. The first one is just by show of hands. Are there any folks in the audience who currently are in any of these programs? Okay. Can I get someone to volunteer to just come up and just share your thoughts, your experience?
Speaker 8: I'd like maybe just one or two. We're not going to call everybody up because we've got a full agenda tonight. So how about a female and a male?
Speaker 1: Okay. So we've got one and two is a these these two individuals. Okay. I think we're going to go with these two for the council. If you could state your name for the record and then answer the council women's question.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 10: My name is April Cotton.
Speaker 8: And which program are you in? April?
Speaker 10: I'm in William Street.
Speaker 8: Okay. Can you just share your experiences there? Are you finding that being in this program is helping you reactivate back into community and get you prepared for when your release date finally comes to that, you'll you feel like you're being equipped with the right tools to be successful.
Speaker 11: I absolutely do. I just did ten years in DWC.
Speaker 10: If I came to William Street not wanting to really do anything because I had no guidance even out of prison.
Speaker 11: They don't have cell phones. So you don't know where Google is. You didn't know absolutely anything.
Speaker 10: So when I first got to William Street, I was real shut off. I was scared. I was nervous.
Speaker 11: I just did ten years. So in my.
Speaker 10: Mind, I was institutionalized. But after being there for maybe a month, still doubting things started changing for me. I ended up getting assigned a wonderful case manager. I was showed how to use a phone. I was showed about Denver, Colorado, because I'm a native from California.
Speaker 10: I was given resources to get a lot of things done for myself.
Speaker 11: I was able to get back in the well, good.
Speaker 10: Good standards of my family. They were offered to come see me. Then shortly after that, I expressed my dear love for the food industry.
Speaker 11: Well, someone from corporate heard me talk, came down in safe served serve safe, certified me with the manager, served safe so I can go out and get a job so I can be just.
Speaker 1: Please hold me like that. Please hold your applause so that we.
Speaker 11: Can be sure to hear everything. He made sure.
Speaker 10: To believe in me, to give.
Speaker 11: Me that go when I had issues in community corrections. Because we all do when things don't go our way. We will do things like pick up and email you because we're upset because either we got the class one ride up for being off location or either we was out there relapsing and now we need a scapegoat.
Speaker 11: And that's where you guys come in. So what we do is when things happen to us, we I picked up the phone and I called Mr. Moreau. I said, I'm having an issue and I don't know what to do.
Speaker 11: He gave me the best advice that anybody could give me. And that advice still makes me stand before you today. I am somebody now. I am a resident, a proud one at William Street, and G.O. has done everything for me.
Speaker 11: Community Corrections stands for reformation, preparation for our destination and goes done just that. Everybody said that, but nobody said the good. Nobody looked at the good the guy was doing. I was in prison ten years lost, and now I am one of the best people that I can be.
Speaker 11: And I thank God for Geo. And I emailed you, Miss Gilmore, expressing that she's sorry.
Speaker 1: You are rules that you have to talk to counsel as a whole not call individual council member. Councilman Ortega, have you.
Speaker 8: Thank you. I appreciate your input. I like the gentleman.
Speaker 1: Before we do that, just a couple ground rules. An important part of democracy is making sure that we have a safe space for people on both sides of an issue. And this issue is is very sensitive and sensitive for everyone.
Speaker 1: And so I will ask that you not applaud and do those things. We want this to be a safe space for everyone. I appreciate you taking time to share with us. I just want the audience to be respectful of everyone who might have different opinions.
Speaker 1: Let's hear what everyone has to say. Make sure that we can hear that and create a safe space for everyone on every side of this issue to speak. So thank you very much, Councilwoman here. This gentleman right here, is that who you'd like if you could introduce yourself and answer the councilman's questions?
Speaker 7: Jeffrey Bradley. So I'm a resident at Solihull. Jeffrey Bradley.
Speaker 8: Okay. Jeffrey, same question.
Speaker 7: You know, I've been a and all this and it doesn't make any sense. I committed a crime. I did almost five years behind it. I still got time left on a sentence. Community corrections didn't do enough to help.
Speaker 7: I'm at a jail facility. I'm at Solihull. And like the lady just said, that people did not bend over backwards for me. I'm one of the people who voluntarily helped do work around a facility. Nobody forced us to do anything.
Speaker 7: I did it myself, keep myself occupied and learn a new skill that I had no idea I could even figure out. Oh, the food, everything like that. They feed us. They houses. Granted, we pay. When we start working, we pay the $17 a day.
Speaker 7: We do that as part of being responsible is part of life, not being in a facility. I came home from DC and committed more crimes. I would've went right back to prison. They've done nothing but opportunity award opportunity to us, so I don't see how anybody could have a problem with Jill and me personally.
Speaker 7: No, I don't think it's okay to make profit off of our dumb decisions. But it's a business. I mean, that's what everybody does. They find somebody find a way to make money. Who can fault. And for that, you know.
Speaker 7: But as in us, nobody's thinking about, oh, let's consider the contract. Let's let's shut it down. Okay, cool. We're all going back to prison. So, you know, I did almost five. I've got a friend who's a I believe he's at Columbine right now and he's been in prison 23 years.
Speaker 7: He's outside. He's got a good job. He's getting ready to go to ISP. Like he wouldn't had that opportunity. You're going to take all that from after doing a quarter century in prison and send them back over something that has nothing to do with us.
Speaker 7: It doesn't make any sense. These people have done nothing but try to help us.
Speaker 8: You know. Are you are you working right now?
Speaker 7: Yes, ma'am.
Speaker 8: So you feel like you're you're being equipped with the tools to be successful so that when you reach your release state near your release, from there you're going to be successful?
Speaker 7: Absolutely. Totally. How has the CBT program cognitive cognitive behavioral therapy? I believe I mean, cognitive thinking is something we all obviously slack and we we made horrible decisions. We did things. We sent a did we paying a price behind the tools that they gave you there?
Speaker 7: I mean, it's tools we all sort of had as kids for whatever reason. We don't possess them. Now we have them. We have the opportunity to use them. I mean, it's on us. Everything's a choice on us. You know, we got to make a choice.
Speaker 7: What are we going to do with it? You know? But I do believe, you know, when the day comes that I am able to be actually back home with my family, with my kids. I'm not going to leave them again.
Speaker 7: Will I give all that credit to them? No. I mean, I spent a lot of time in prison trying to better myself. But coming home from doing that into this residential program, it is nothing but amplify that. Everybody actually, I love them dearly and I've only been there for three and a half months.
Speaker 7: From his Louis to Miss Whitney to my case manager. So, Miss, I tell you, like, all these people will go out of their way to try to help you. So why anybody would think they're treating us any kind of way or doing anything like that, nobody's perfect.
Speaker 7: Are human beings that work everywhere, obviously is human nature. Sometimes people are just bad people. Look at us. We went to prison. But that doesn't mean these people that aren't trying to help, there's not serious issues. All these things that I'm sitting here hearing, I mean, I would rather eat sack lunches they give us every day than
Speaker 7: eat the food that they give us and D.O.C. And if this contract is a renewed, I'm going back to eat food and see do I want that now? I've spent years trying to fix my life to go backwards.
Speaker 7: I mean, it is what it is. I committed a crime. I did that. But does it suck? Absolutely. Is a desirable? Absolutely not.
Speaker 8: Thank you so much for your input. Yes. I'm going to follow up with two quick questions, Greg, for you. There was a comment made about some folks who had not been paid. And I just want you to talk about, you know, when the contracts expired and how long it had been before we were able to actually make
Speaker 8: payments to the organizations that we've had these contracts with.
Speaker 2: So the contracts expired because the contracts align with the state fiscal year and the funding source. The contracts expired in June of 19. So the vendors actually have not been paid for services. They have continued to provide services at six facilities on their own accord.
Speaker 2: Nothing prevented them from closing and returning everybody to custody. They've continued to operate all six facilities.
Speaker 8: But that's been corrected from the time that City Council approved the receipt of the funds from the State, correct?
Speaker 2: Councilwoman Ortega No, it has not been corrected that the hope tonight is.
Speaker 8: Because we haven't had all of these contracts.
Speaker 11: In place. That's right.
Speaker 8: Okay. Sorry about that. I think a couple of them did move forward, though, right? The state and independent says correct.
Speaker 2: So the the acceptance of the intergovernmental agreement from the state moved forward, as did the contract with Independence House.
Speaker 8: Okay. Last question. Either you or I saw Evan here earlier. I don't know if he left. Okay. Just talk about next steps where we move forward, assuming that we have the votes here tonight for the contracts. To be moved forward as we move towards looking at other options about how we do community corrections in Denver.
Speaker 2: So, Councilman, the first thing I'd say is we have to get this right. I mean, look at this room. It's filled it was filled on the fifth. So we have to get this right. If the contracts are approved, what we will do from the Department of Safety standpoint is stand up a 13 member committee that will be
Speaker 2: responsible to sort of look at the options that we have available. We're going to have to work closely with land use and zoning. We're going to have to look at how community corrections impacts victims, how it impacts families, how it impacts individuals.
Speaker 2: That body will contain representatives from from city council. It will contain reported representatives from the community. I will co-chair, along with a community person, which we will be seeking input from council to sort of move these conversations forward.
Speaker 2: I will tell you, it's no small feat. We have six months and 12 months to turn a massive ship. I think it's been quoted in an article to move it and turn it on a dime. And that's going to be no small feat.
Speaker 2: But we've heard council will respect where you're coming from and do everything we can to restore services. But it's going to be painful and we will see a reduction in services in the short term. It's my goal to ensure down the road that Denver's better, better for this and that we have all the services in more than
Speaker 2: we have today. But in the short time, we're going to lose services.
Speaker 8: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman.
Speaker 12: Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just want to make a few brief comments. First, I just want to say that I really appreciate those who are here with lived experience. Those current and past. And I believe that it's quite possible and I believe it's true that we are hearing the true experience of people who've had very
Speaker 12: positive, affirming experiences, and that as well, it can be just as true for those folks who've either shared anonymous complaints or shared that they had a different experience to meet. And so I think that that full gamut of experience is really important to hear and to believe.
Speaker 12: And I think that what's most important for us moving forward is that we have the systems in place to ensure that where there are concerns, there are people who can hear them and handle them in ways that protects people's safety.
Speaker 12: Last time we were here on this topic, I did ask and I did get affirmation that ombudsperson is or somehow some kind of safe complaints system outside the Department of Corrections. Typical systems would be a topic of conversation for the task force.
Speaker 12: I see Mr. Morrow standing. I Unless that's changed, I don't need any comment from you, but I'm assuming yes, it's okay. So that is still a topic. I just want to make clear that I don't think we have to prove that the operators in town have somehow done malfeasance or bad things in order to decide that these
Speaker 12: are not the right partners. Right. So I don't think that we have to have a string of cases. We have a strong history in this city of saying that we want to do business with folks who are responsible contractors and their performance in other facilities in other states is relevant.
Speaker 12: We recently went through a private contractor at the airport that we had to terminate with who had a record of having issues in other communities, and we did not follow some of that evidence and we contracted with them anyway.
Speaker 12: So it does matter how they conduct business and there are times maybe things have been lumped under one provider's name that's better known. But the truth is that one of the providers does have some use in their custody, the other does not.
Speaker 12: And there are lawsuits and concerns for both of the providers we've been discussing. And so that is enough, in my opinion, for us as a council to ask questions about who we're doing business with, even if there hasn't been wrongdoing here in Denver.
Speaker 12: On the flip side, I don't think I have to prove or that you as a community or that anyone on this council has to prove that these providers are perfect in order to extend these contracts. Today, it's been very well demonstrated that there are not other pathways.
Speaker 12: And so because there are not other pathways, and it is critical that we put the individuals who are residents in a stable environment for the six month or the 12 months. Even if there are some lingering complaints that require investigation and follow up, there is not the malfeasance here that would say we can't and shouldn't extend this
Speaker 12: to provide stability to four or 500 individuals so they don't have to be, in my opinion, perfect providers for us to say that the right thing to do is to continue these contracts so it's both appropriate to continue them for the people who live there and need the stability as well as for our city to prepare.
Speaker 12: And then it's also appropriate to say that at some point in the future, when those contracts expire, that these partners don't meet our standards for how they may operate, even if it is outside our community. And I think both those things can be true and we can vote with both of those values in mind.
Speaker 12: I do just want to put on the record that I heard from several. Individuals who I had talked to prior to our hearing the last time who were, you know, voices for immigrant protection and also voices for saying we couldn't end the contracts immediately.
Speaker 12: I was surprised that that testimony did not come out in the last hearing. Instead, all of the testimony was about ending the contracts immediately. I have since heard from several of those community organizations who believe that the right step forward because of racial justice and because of the number of individuals impacted is to continue the contracts.
Speaker 12: We didn't have an open hearing tonight, so not everybody who didn't get called up here was able to testify. But I have heard from those individuals, and I do believe that we have a greater community consensus tonight about the need to continue these contracts for these short terms, for the humanity of the folks living in them while
Speaker 12: we work to responsibly wrap them down. I believed we could have gotten here last time. We didn't. I think if we'd had a few months under our belt as a council and more practices of talking to each other and negotiating with the administration, we might have gotten there, but we were not at that place.
Speaker 12: We had folks who were new and the relationships in the communication were new. But we can do the right thing tonight. I'm prepared to vote for those things with a very serious investment in the promises made both last time and tonight about the process.
Speaker 12: And I will just renew my call one more time for our community. If you care about this issue, it's important for you to open your hearts and minds as we engage in a conversation about zoning for community correctional facilities.
Speaker 12: There has been no safety related incidents in our communities. There have been virtually no complaints. It's critical for us to open up more of our neighborhoods for supervised protection of individuals. These community members are coming back to our city whether they come under supervision or not.
Speaker 12: And so it's incumbent upon us to change that zoning as quickly as we can. And that will take support from all of us, including those who may not be here tonight. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman CdeBaca.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I don't think it's accurate to make people in this room believe that at the last opportunity we were able to renegotiate this contract on the floor. I think that's been a misunderstanding throughout this entire process.
Speaker 6: There's one entity that has the ability to renegotiate these contracts, and that is our administration, that is our mayor's office and his director of public safety and those who work underneath him. And so at the last opportunity, it was not a possibility for us to get to this place with these with a six month contract and a
Speaker 6: 12 month contract. And in fact, even with those new relationships and those new people who were on council, we attempted to meet with the Division of Community Corrections prior to our vote to discuss what potential options existed to renegotiate this contract and make sure that we were ratcheting down in a responsible way and transitioning to local management
Speaker 6: , that we were told that that was not going to happen. That was not an option. And so that is why we're in this predicament. And so I want to be very clear that there was a lot of thought put into this process the first time.
Speaker 6: There is a lot of thought, obviously, being put into this decision this time. Ideally, we would want to have community or county control over this situation so that we could more be more selective about the providers that were choosing.
Speaker 6: I would like us to see I would like to see us move in that direction because we need to be able to hold our providers accountable in a way that serves our local government and serves the people in corrections with high quality standards.
Speaker 6: We have had people testify tonight about what is happening inside, both from the positive side and the negative side. And I think that, yes, we have these decisions in front of us now. But I think that in the last vote, what you heard from council is that we're not willing to renew these contracts after the six months
Speaker 6: and after the 12 months. And so what I expect from our Division of Community Corrections is that we put that $600,000 that goes into this budget to use to make sure that we're looking deeper into these audits, that we're figuring out how to build our own capacity again, to do this work, instead of allowing corporations to gobble
Speaker 6: up our services and gobble up our capacity and not allow us to make decisions that are in the best interest of our residents. And so I was going to call somebody up, but I will I will skip that so that we can get on to the vote and the rest of the agenda.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilwoman Torres.
Speaker 10: I was drawn.
Speaker 1: All right. Any other comments before we vote on this one? I will just end by saying thank you to staff and that I will second that I feel, you know, I think it was Councilman Hines who actually said earlier that the message has been delivered.
Speaker 1: And I sometimes change like the change that we need in this space takes a moment where it gets real and we don't have the option to negotiate these. We have an up or down vote. And I stand by my vote last time to vote no and send that message to deliver that message that the future can't look
Speaker 1: like the present or the past. And I appreciate the work, and I appreciate that it's going to be a lot of hard work between now and then. But I think that through that vote, we've said we've set our city on a different course.
Speaker 1: And so I do today I will be voting to support these contracts because I feel like now we're on that pathway and we're on that course. And I didn't feel like we were last time. So I appreciate the work that it went into to get us from where we were then to where we are now and now
Speaker 1: . I do believe it's the right decision to make sure to take care of the people who are currently in the system, in a system that is hard to move on a dime, but we need to move it very, very quickly still.
Speaker 1: And I think that's really the hard work that has set out now on the path that we're set on. And so I look forward to that work happening and starting, you know, tomorrow. So thank you for that. And I will be voting in support this evening.
Speaker 1: Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 2: Hinds High.
Speaker 3: Black High CdeBaca I Flynn.
Speaker 4: High.
Speaker 3: Gilmore High Herndon.
Speaker 1: I.
Speaker 3: Cashman.
Speaker 2: High.
Speaker 3: Converge Ortega High Sandoval I. Sawyer I. Torres, I. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I. I'm Secretary. Please close voting announced results 1339 as Resolution 81.