Meeting: BostonCC_03092022
Date: 2022-03-09

---

Speaker 0: Thank you, Doctor. 0349 will be referred to the Committee on Public Safety Criminal Justice. Mr. Clarke, please read docket 0350.
Speaker 1: Lucky Numbers 0350 message. An order authorizing the city of Boston to accept and expend the amount of $40,500 in the form of a grant for the Adopt a Statue endowment fund awarded by the Boston Foundation to be administered by the Mayor's Office of Arts and Culture.
Speaker 1: The grant will fund the care and maintenance of the John Boyle O'Reilly Sculpture by Daniel Chester French.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Mr. Clarke. The Chair recognizes Council Edwards Chair of the Committee on Arts, Culture, Special Events. Counsel Edwards, you have the floor.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. Due to the amount of the money and the fact that this is not a controversial fund, it is simply to preserve fund statutes and to allow for us to make sure that we have the care and stewardship of public monuments.
Speaker 5: I am moving to suspend and pass for this $40,000 to be immediately put to good use. I know my colleague, Councilor Baucus and brief remarks to make about the statute as it is in her district. But I would encourage my colleagues not to belabor this, nor do we really need a long hearing, about $40,000 to help preserve
Speaker 6: . And maintain the statue.
Speaker 5: So I am moving to suspend and pass.
Speaker 0: Thank. Thank you. Counsel Edwards, the chair recognizes counsel. Bar counsel. You have the.
Speaker 2: Floor. Thank you so much. President Clinton, I just briefly wanted to note on this statue, since we got St Patrick's Day coming up, John Paul O'Reilly was a really amazing figure in Boston. He grew up in Ireland. He was actually imprisoned by the British for being part of the Fenian Brotherhood and pushing for Irish home rule and
Speaker 2: independence. He was ultimately shipped off to Australia as part of the, you know, the shipping of prisoners to Australia. He made a daring escape from the Australian penal colony on a New Bedford whaler ship came to the US.
Speaker 2: We've been talking a lot lately about how Boston is a city of immigrants and the country is a country of immigrants. And I think it really underscores that when O'Reilly showed up in the U.S. the day that he landed, he was naturalized as an American citizen.
Speaker 2: Something which doesn't happen these days. And he then moved to Boston and ended up becoming an incredibly celebrated and beloved man of letters here in the city. He was the editor of the pilot, which was this big Catholic publication, and he was also just a really well known poet throughout the country.
Speaker 2: And so when he died. Oh, and I should also say, really importantly, he ended up being a real cultural figure between the like the sort of Protestant establishment in Boston and the growing Catholic immigrant community who was kind of beloved by all.
Speaker 2: And so when he died in 1890, it was really like all factions of the city that came together to create this subscription fund. The statue was actually paid for by just individuals and the public signing up, but thousands and thousands of them from all over the world actually have to fund this $20,000 statue.
Speaker 2: And but the city council actually appropriated the money for these memorial books to be printed by the City Printing Office. So when I was doing the history reading about this, I laughed because it's the municipal printing office that printed this and they were paid for out of the City Council's incidental expenses fund, a thing which doesn't exist
Speaker 2: these days, but, you know, just a flag. And so, you know, rather than having this just be like words on a piece of paper on the agenda, I wanted to underscore that he was just a really important person in the cultural life of the city 150 years ago.
Speaker 2: And also that I think it shows you that the stories of how immigrants become completely essential and embedded in the fabric of Boston is a story that we can we can and should tell again and again, and that we should memorialize again and again.
Speaker 2: So grateful to councilors for supporting Councilor Edwards's motion for suspension of passage today. And the statue is in Fenway. It is. It's facing if you you're coming on Boylston Street from the back Bay to cross the fence, it's immediately on your left across from the Massachusetts Historical Society Building.
Speaker 2: If you know it, it's kind of like some seating around it. Um, and, you know, I have a whole two page poem by O'Reilly, but Lydia said, I go on too long, so you're not going to get it today.
Speaker 2: But it was, you know, he he was the favorite poet of many Boston Saint Patrick's days for many years. So thank you for your indulgence.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Council balking. And in South Boston on Dorchester Street, we have the John Boyle Reilly apartment buildings as well. So just wanted to give you a little bit more trivia. Councilor Edward moves for suspension of the rules and passage of docket 0350.
Speaker 0: All those in favor say I. I oppose say nay. The ayes have it. The docket has passed. Mr. Clarke, can you please read?

Speaker 1: Docket numbers 0272 message. In order for your approval, in order to reduce the fiscal year 22 appropriation for the reserve for collective bargaining by $2,016,409 to provide funding for various departments for fiscal year 22. Increases contained within the collective bargaining agreements between the City of Boston and senior docket number 0273 Message in orders for a supplemental appropriation
Speaker 1: order for various departments for fiscal year 22 in the amount of $2,016,409 to cover the fiscal year. 22 cost items contained within the collective bargaining agreements between the city of Boston, as seen in the terms of the contracts, or October 1st, 2020 through September 30th, 2023.
Speaker 1: The major provisions of the contracts include base wage increases of 2%, 1.5% and 2% to be given in October of each fiscal year of the contract term filed in the Office of the City Clerk on February 14, 2022.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Mr. Clarke. The Chair recognizes Councilor Bach, chair of the Committee on City Services, Innovation Technology Council. You have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you so much, Mr. President. And I note for colleagues that you have a committee report filed with you, and we had a productive hearing yesterday here in the chamber. Thank you so much to Council President Flynn and also Councilor Murphy for joining me and to Councilor Lujan for sending a thoughtful letter.
Speaker 2: And we were joined by Chief Financial Officer and Collector Treasurer for the city, Justin Sterritt, Budget Director Jim Williamson and our Director of Labor Relations, Tammy. And they were here to testify on behalf of the administration. And so I want to thank central staff for getting us back into this.
Speaker 2: Now, the second one of these hybrid hearings where we've we've got all the mechanics of the in-person hearing and also the mechanics of the hybrid hearing. So shout out as ever to the folks behind the scenes making that happen, especially in this case, Michelle and Terry Duckett 0272 Transfers transfer funds from the collective bargaining reserve to various
Speaker 2: departments and to 73 authorizes the funding of the collective bargaining agreement between the City of Boston and Senate, which stands for the Salaried Employees of North America. As was recited in the docket by the clerk. We've reached an agreement from October one, 2020 to September 30th, 2023.
Speaker 2: It's for further background and for those who weren't able to make the hearing and I think many people know basically all of our bargaining units are out of contract right now. And Santa is one of the many that lapsed sort of a year and a half ago.
Speaker 2: And so the way that the city handles that financially is it sets a certain amount of money aside in this collective bargaining reserve, just sort of anticipating that we'll spend it once deals are reached. And that's what this appropriation today is is doing.
Speaker 2: It's taking 2 million out of that $10 million reserve because a deal has been reached. And that's to cover the amount of the deal that runs up through the 30th of June this year. Everything that's part of this contract that the city is obligated to after July 1st will be reflected in the proposed budget.
Speaker 2: So this is just for the balance of the contract period that's sort of already happened. And yeah, and so the main provisions of the contract are of the changes are that Juneteenth has been added for these employees as a holiday and that there are increases, incremental increases to salaries across the board, 2% for the first year, 1.5
Speaker 2: for the second and 2% for the third. And this for it to even get to us. It's already been ratified by the union and been agreed to the table by both sides. And we heard good testimony about how sort of a balance between making sure that we're treating our city workers well and also that everything is within
Speaker 2: sort of the fiscally responsible remit of the city, especially since we have to balance so many of these. So with that. Mr. President, I would recommend that these 20272 and 0273 as read by the clerk pass today. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Constable. We will now take these votes separately. Council. County Council Board. The chair on the Committee on City Services Innovation Technology seeks acceptance of the Committee report and passage of Docket 0272. All those in favor say aye.
Speaker 0: Opposed nay. The ayes have it. And docket 0272 has passed. Councilor Borg, the chair on the Committee on City Services Innovation Technology, seeks acceptance of the committee report and passage of Docket 0273. All those in favor say aye.
Speaker 0: Aye. I opposed nay. The ayes have it. Docket 0273 has passed. Motions, orders and resolutions. Mr. Couric, please read Docket 03570357.

Speaker 0: Dawkins 03550356 will be placed on file. Matters recently heard for possible action. Mr. Clerk, please read Docket 0259.
Speaker 1: Number 0259 An Ordinance amending City of Boston Code Ordinances Chapter 15, Section ten and establishing the Boston Fair Chance Act.
Speaker 0: Thank you. The Chair recognizes Councilor Arroyo, Chair of the Committee on Government Operations Council of Rail. You have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. Yesterday, March eight, the government operating committee held a hearing on docket number 259, an ordinance amending the City of Boston code ordinances.
Speaker 0: And Chapter 15, Section ten that establishes the Boston Fair Chance Act. This docket is sponsored by Councilor Me and myself. The ordinance would amend existing language in the Boston City Code establishing a chief affirmative action officer instead of instead creating the Boston Fair Chance Act.
Speaker 0: The Fair Chance Act would formalize the position of the Chief Diversity Officer who would provide oversight of the city's nondiscrimination, equal opportunity and affirmative action policies. This ordinance would also require regular updates on progress made regarding diverse hiring.
Speaker 0: Would 1/2 just make sure I'm where I am in promotions and require that the Chief Diversity Officer work with officers to make sure there are fair hiring practices and policies in place for family members of current employees. I want to thank my co-sponsor councilman here for introducing this legislation as well as my council colleagues for joining Council
Speaker 0: President Ed Flynn, Councilor Rosie Louie and Councilor Erin Murphy, Councilor Kenzie Bok, Councilor Kendra Lara, Councilor Liz Braden and Councilor Brian Root. I also want to thank members of the administration for their attendance and participation, and I finally want to thank the advocates who took the time out of their workdays and showed tremendous courage in their testimony
Speaker 0: yesterday and sharing their experiences. I'm looking forward to getting to work on the specific language in this ordinance, and as Chair, I recommend that this docket remain in committee so that we can have some working sessions on it.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you, Counselor Arroyo. The chair recognizes counsel here. Counsel, meet me here. You have the floor.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you to my co-sponsor, Counselor Arroyo, for. For chairing a great hearing. And I just want to take a quick moment to thank all the panelists and members of the public who took a big risk showing up at yesterday's hearing and speaking up about the injustices that they face here every day.
Speaker 7: We have heard from so many other people who experience the same workplace problems but are too afraid to speak up because they fear retaliation. But let's be clear it should not be a punishable offense for any employee to try to make a workplace better and friendlier to people from all backgrounds.
Speaker 7: That is, in fact, actually exactly what our ordinance is designed to do. We are incredibly grateful to receive testimony from mary i mary a generally solace severa from the mayor's administration. In addition to our panel of advocates Dennis Boneham, Daryl Higginbottom, Jerome Hagle and Jeff Dr. Jeff Lopes.
Speaker 7: We've learned a lot about their personal and professional experiences dealing with workplace discrimination, and I look forward to continuing working alongside each of these amazing advocates as we move towards working in our working sessions and eventually towards passing this ordinance.
Speaker 7: Finally, I'd like to say and to thank Jasmine from Castle Royal's staff for helping us pay all of this hearing and and moving this work forward. I just want to quickly say that, you know, over the last year or so, we have heard from so many people who were afraid to even meet with me in public because
Speaker 7: they didn't want to talk about this. And so it took a lot of courage for people to step up and share their personal journeys. But I think this is a call to action. It is if we're really serious about really looking at the systemic racism that exists and continues to prevent black and brown people from moving up
Speaker 7: . We need to make sure that we're leaning into this conversation and ready to roll up our sleeves to do right by so many employees who have been passed up for promotions that they were well qualified for and oftentimes are training their white counterparts to do the work that they should be doing.
Speaker 7: So I'm hoping that as we continue to move forward with the working sessions, that we come ready to do the work that it's going to take to bring justice to the folks who have been waiting for far too long.
Speaker 7: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you, councilman. Here. Thank. Thank you, counsel. Royal docket 0259 will remain in committee. Mr. Clerk, please read docket 0272 and 0273 together.
Speaker 1: Docket numbers 0272 message. In order for your approval, in order to reduce the fiscal year 22 appropriation for the reserve for collective bargaining by $2,016,409 to provide funding for various departments for fiscal year 22. Increases contained within the collective bargaining agreements between the City of Boston and senior docket number 0273 Message in orders for a supplemental appropriation