Meeting: BostonCC_02092022
Date: 2022-02-09

---

Speaker 1: Lucky number 0158. Message in order for your approval. In order authorizing the issuance of refunding bonds in the principal amount amount not to exceed $200 million. The current conditions in the municipal bond market appears to be favorable for the city to potentially realize significant savings in debt service costs by refunding certain of its outstanding general obligation bonds
Speaker 0: . Thank you, Mr. Clarke. At this time, the chair recognizes Counsel Fernandez Anderson, the chair of the Committee on Ways and Means. Counselor Fernandez Anderson. You have the flow.
Speaker 3: Thank you, counsel plan in case needs to be said. This is not my maiden speech. You should all have the committee report in your inbox. The Committee on Ways and Means held a public hearing on Monday, February 7th and heard testimony from the city CEO Justin Sterrett and Maureen Castle and Richard Piano from Treasury.
Speaker 3: This order requests for funding authorization of $200 million, which will cover an upcoming anticipated refunding transaction and future potential transactions. Refunding transactions are transactions in which new bonds are issued at more favorable rates than previously issued bonds similar to the refinancing of an individual's home mortgage.
Speaker 3: As of an assessment one month ago. The city has approximately $60 million in bonds that could be refunded, which would save the city 3.5 million in debt service over the next ten years. The refunding transactions will be credit neutral, credit neutral and will not push the current debt out.
Speaker 3: The council last granted refunding authorization in 2019, which has since run out. Granting additional authorization to total, allows the city the flexibility to move quickly to take advantage of refunding transaction opportunities when market conditions are most favorable. I recommend that this matter all to pass.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you. Counsel Fernandez Anderson, the chair of the Committee on Ways and Means six, acceptance of the Committee Report and passage of Docket 0158. Mr. Potter, can you please call the wrong.
Speaker 1: Lucky number 0158. Councilor Royal.
Speaker 0: Yes.
Speaker 1: Councilor Roy. Yes. Councilor Baker. I know Baker. Yes. Councilor Borg. Yes. Councilor Borg. Yes. Councilor Braden. Yes. Councilor Braden. Yes. Counsel Edwards.
Speaker 3: Yes.
Speaker 1: Councilor Edwards. Yes. Councilor Fernandez Anderson. Yes. Counsel Fernandez Anderson. Yes. Counsel of Clarity.
Speaker 0: Yes.
Speaker 1: Not so clarity. Yes. Counsel of Flynn.
Speaker 0: Yes.
Speaker 1: Not so of Flynn. Yes. Counsel. Error.
Speaker 3: Yes.
Speaker 1: Not sort of. Our In-house counsel. Louisiana. Yes. Counsel Louisiana. Yes. Counsel. Let me hear.
Speaker 3: Yes.
Speaker 1: That's what I mean here. Yes. Counsel Murphy.
Speaker 3: Yes.
Speaker 1: Not sort the. Murphy. Yes.
Speaker 2: Counsel World. Yes.
Speaker 1: Counsel Oral. Yes, Mr. President. Docket number 0158, as we see the unanimous vote.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Mr. Clerk. Docket 0158 has passed in in. Counselor Fernandez Anderson is exactly right. That was not her maiden speech. We are looking forward to it in in a couple of weeks. So just want to say thank you for that reminder.
Speaker 0: Counselor Fernandez innocent. Thank you. We're on two motions, orders and resolutions. Mr. Clerk, please read docket 0259, please.
Speaker 1: Lucky Number 0259 Council on Me here in Arroyo offered the following an ordinance amending City of Boston Code Ordinances, Chapter 15, Section ten, and establishing the Boston Fair Chance.

Speaker 1: Plug in numbers 026 for Council Makiya and Flynn for the following order that the appropriate committee, the Boston City Council, hold a working session to review applications for the Commission on Black Men and Boys.
Speaker 0: Counsel Arroyo, will you please take over at this time? Thank you, Mr. Clarke. The Chair recognizes the lead sponsor council here.
Speaker 3: Thank you to the chair and thank you to council President Flynn for working with our office so quickly to get this order extended to the Council today. In September of 2021, the City Council passed an ordinance establishing a commission on black men and boys.
Speaker 3: Since then, we have been working with the administration and with advocates to ensure that the Commission is set up for success in the spirit of transparency. And as the Chair of the Committee on Government Accountability and Transparency and Accessibility, we have an opportunity to play a role in who is going to serve the commission.
Speaker 3: The mayor's office reached out to us and asked the council to submit 14 names, of which seven will be chosen to serve on the commission. We then partnered with Councilor President Flynn and Councilor Rochelle to design an application process in the hopes of getting a wide variety of people interested in applying in the Commission.
Speaker 3: Starting today, people interested in applying can go to Boston dot gov slash join dash the dash. Commission dash on dash. Black dashed men. Dash and dash boys and submit an application to be on the council's 14 nominees. Our office will send out a link to the application to each of your offices following the meeting.
Speaker 3: Applications will be open from today, February 9th through February 23rd. Applicants will be asked to share their professional and personal interests in regards to uplifting black men and voices. Once we receive our applications, we will hold a working session so that we can come to a consensus on our nominations.
Speaker 3: I strongly encourage my council colleagues to share the application to as many interested individuals and groups as possible. We have an obligation to ensure that our Commission on Black Men and Boys represents the diverse lived experience and world views so that it is truly a commission for all black men and boys.
Speaker 3: I want to again thank President Flynn and his office for their quick turnaround in authorizing this process. And I also want to thank Kurzel and his team for playing a vital role in ensuring that the application process meets this moment.
Speaker 3: And of course, I want to show my appreciation and deep gratitude for Kerry Jordan for working to get our application up and running. This has been a team process from the beginning to the end, and we are setting the tone for how we hope the Commission will operate.
Speaker 3: I look forward to this process and working alongside each of you. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilor Mejia. The chair recognizes the second original co-sponsor. Councilor Flynn, you have the floor. Thank you. Councilor Royle, I want to say thank you to Council Royal, but also called somebody here for your work on this important on this important subject.
Speaker 0: I also want to say thank you to Council Councilor Brian Worl for his important work as well, his leadership. Council and his leadership. As council members here mentioned that city council will be able to nominate candidates to be on the commission on black men and boys.
Speaker 0: So with this order, we are setting up a process to review applications to be ought to be on the commission to get feedback from our colleagues. I also want to say thank you to Mayor Wu in her administration.
Speaker 0: This will be similar to the process that Councilor Campbell had for nominations to the Civilian Review Board. I look forward to working with everyone on the nomination process. Thank you. Thank you. Councilor Flynn, would anyone else like to speak on this matter?
Speaker 0: Seeing no one would end. Would anyone like to add their names to the docket? Please add counselor clarity. Please. And Councilor Bok, please add council will you please add Councilor Murphy, please add Councilor Braden please add Councilor Baker.
Speaker 0: Please add my name. Please add Councilor Fernandez Anderson please at Councilor Laura and please take Councilor Lui Jen. Did I miss anyone else? No. Okay. And with that. Docket number 0264 will be assigned to the Committee on Civil Rights, Immigrant Advancement.
Speaker 0: Back to you, Mr. President. Thank you, Council Royal. Mr. Clarke, will you please read docket 0265?

Speaker 1: Lucky Number 0259 Council on Me here in Arroyo offered the following an ordinance amending City of Boston Code Ordinances, Chapter 15, Section ten, and establishing the Boston Fair Chance.
Speaker 0: To be chair. Recognizes Councilmember. Here, Councilmember. Here you have the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you to Kelso Arroyo and his staff for co-sponsoring this docket alongside of our office, the city of Boston employees, nearly 20,000 people to do all sorts of jobs, from parking attendants to EMS workers to sewer workers and more.
Speaker 3: There are a few things in our city that aren't made better by the work of our city employees. We saw during the last storm how essential our Boston Public Works employees really are. And for many of them, this isn't just about collecting a paycheck.
Speaker 3: Their jobs aren't just what they do. It's who they are. Over the past several months, I have been in deep communication and meeting with these workers to learn about their experiences working for the city. In each meeting, we heard the same story.
Speaker 3: Workers of color, some who have been city employees for nearly 30 years, have been routinely denied opportunities to advance their careers to obtain higher wages. A quick look at the city's employment dashboard reveals this to be true. According to the Demographics dashboard as of January 2022, while white employees made up 48.9% of the total workforce, they disproportionately
Speaker 3: represented 61.6 of employees making over 80,000 a year. Even in departments with large percentages of employees of color, the top earners are predominantly white, such as the Department of Public Works, where black and brown employees make up nearly half of the total of the workforce.
Speaker 3: But only 10% of the top ten earners. We have heard from workers of color who have been tasked with training newer, less experienced, predominantly white employees for positions above them, meaning that they are somehow experienced enough to train management but not experience enough to be management.
Speaker 3: We have also heard from qualified city employees who sought to seek higher levels of employment, only to be passed over for a buddy or a relative of a hiring manager. In hearings, we have asked questions to numerous departments as to why they do not have a more diverse workforce.
Speaker 3: Each time we ask this question. We hear a similar response that the talent just isn't there. After meeting with countless workers of color, each of whom have demonstrated their expertize, their passion and their commitment to the city, it is clear that the talent is there, but we're just not utilizing it.
Speaker 3: This is why we are failing. The Boston Fair. Chance at the Fair Chance Act formally codifies a chief diversity officer position who will work with all city agencies to develop a detailed plan for hiring minority employees, women employees, LGBTQ plus employees and employees with disabilities.
Speaker 3: A detailed plan for promotion of State Employees. A detailed plan for improving work place culture, preventing harassment, intimidation and bullying. And a detailed plan for disseminating this information to covered employees. The Chief Diversity Officer will also take the steps to ensure that opportunities for nepotism or workforce discrimination are eliminated.
Speaker 3: We have the capacity in Boston to create a workforce that is representative of our communities and representative our commitment to economic empowerment. I look forward to this conversation and to strengthening this ordinance alongside my colleagues. You know, I just have to say, in being in deep community with a lot of our city employees, many of which were
Speaker 3: even afraid to speak up, it just goes to show that the volume of importance that this particular conversation has in this moment in time to ensure that we're moving the needle when it comes to ensuring that all people have the opportunity to rise up.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Here. The chair recognizes Councilor Arroyo. Counsel Arroyo, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Gray. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Councilman Heath, who summarizes really well. What I'll just add to this is I think it's incredibly, incredibly important that as a city, we ensure that residents are qualified to get employed, are promoted, get
Speaker 0: a fair chance at doing so. And my hope is that these changes help make a fairer and more just process when it. And frankly, a more transparent process when it comes to how we decide and make hires and promotions in the city of Boston.
Speaker 0: And so I look forward to working on this with council, and I'm grateful to councilman here for for our work in this. Thank you. Thank you. Council Royal. Is anyone else looking to speak on this matter? If you are, can you.
Speaker 0: Can you raise your hand? I don't see anyone wishing to speak on this matter. If you would like. If you would like to add your name, would you please raise your hand at this time? Mr. Clarke Can you hear it?
Speaker 0: Councilor Fernandez Anderson, Council LRA. Councilor Murphy Council of Rate and Council Lodging Council where. Council of City Council a block. Please add the chair. I don't see I don't see anyone else's name. Anyone else's hand. Docket 0259 will be referred to the Committee on Government Operations.
Speaker 0: Mr. Clerk, please read docket 0260, please.
Speaker 1: Lucky numbers 0260 Council plan all for the following resolution in support of each 3115 enact and in ensuring equitable representation in the Commonwealth.

Speaker 0: Back to you, Mr. President. Thank you, Council Royal. Mr. Clarke, will you please read docket 0265?
Speaker 1: IP number 0265. Councilor Baker offer the following in order authorizing the city of Boston to accept and extend a grant funded through the coronavirus, state and local fiscal recovery from Fund c. L f. R. F in the Treasury of the United States, established by Section 9190 901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, a RPA awarded
Speaker 1: by the United States Department.
Speaker 0: Of the Treasury. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Clarke. B The Chair recognizes counsel. Baker Council. Baker You have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just just to be clear, this is an ask for $10 million. I filed this law and order looking for a way to support the boys and Girls, Boys and Girls Club of Dorchester, who
Speaker 0: , in collaboration with the Martin Richards Foundation, are proposing a once in a lifetime, once in a generation opportunity to transform a parcel of land on Columbia Point into a vibrant youth development facility, a field house designed to holistically meet the ever evolving needs of Boston's 50,000 children and teens living in a in a three mile radius, including
Speaker 0: the thousand Boston public school students who attend the abutting Gavin McCormick schools using the upon AP moneys has received the AARP money thus far has come down from the mayor. The pathway has come down from the mayor asking us for approval.
Speaker 0: I would like to change that and have an ask from a district city councilor and have it go up again. It doesn't necessarily need to be asked for money, but this is an official ask for $10 million to go towards this field house.
Speaker 0: So the city would signal to the state because the state has already made commitments towards this field house. The Boys and Girls Club of Dorchester currently operates three clubhouses servicing servicing a culturally and ethnically diverse range of children from and from newborns to 18.
Speaker 0: I believe I believe if we can help with some funding, we can create a community that can stay on the peninsula from a young age through college at UMass and potentially right into a job. As well as receive the support they need.
Speaker 0: This would be a hub school model where children and adults alike have a safe place from before, before school, through dinnertime. This will also be a facility that will be fully accessible and inclusive to all and a great benefit to the school community on on Columbia Point.
Speaker 0: We have an amazing opportunity here to use the funds to be able to point to a tangible structure that will be built successfully in this time for money and again, to reach to to restate what I've been stating since the beginning when we were talking about all we are for money.
Speaker 0: My concern is that if we're not in line with projects to build with the money coming down from the feds, we're going to look back and five years and and and look at a whole lot of debt coming down on the federal government and have no assets.
Speaker 0: No assets that we've actually built infrastructure meaning failed houses, meaning housing, meaning libraries, meaning parks. We need to be building things with money and yes, thank you. Building building things with this money. So we'll be able to point to things that we've been able to build with this money from the feds.
Speaker 0: Again, this is more of a waste. So I can have my.
Speaker 3: Colleagues.
Speaker 0: In a hearing and view this structure and and view what the whole plan is over here on Columbia Point. It's part of. A lot of mines that are that are that are together on the point talking about education that will start at zero and end in at UMass.
Speaker 0: And also job opportunities that will happen with the new development in the next 5 to 10 years also. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Counselor Baker. Is what any other counsel I was like to speak on this matter.
Speaker 0: If you would, would you please raise your hand? Good counsel. The chair recognizes counsel. Murphy. Counsel Murphy over the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Counselor Baker And I just wanted to quickly say that I do know personally the Boys and Girls Club of Dorchester, who has helped so many families and children and continue to and the Emirates Foundation and them coming together and really working on this and working hard to raise most of the funds themselves.
Speaker 3: This support from us would just really make the difference and also agree what Councilor Baker said, that this once in a generation lifetime money coming from the federal government. Housing and all of these other issues are very important.
Speaker 3: But if we can invest and make sure we're investing in lasting infrastructure, that our grandchildren can look back and see that it's not. Things that we're not going to even remember what we put into because this will be generations, thousands of children benefiting from this and would love, like Baker said.
Speaker 3: Counselor Baker said that when we have this hearing, having married in the Boys and Girls Club, come to us as the council and really share with us the work they've been doing and their vision for this amazing clubhouse.
Speaker 3: And, you know, it's an empty parking lot. Anyone who's been in that area or have lived in Dorchester like myself for the last decades, if you drive down that street, it's been an empty parking lot forever, right behind PC High, which is always updating their football field and their soccer field.
Speaker 3: And UMass Boston is on the other side of it. So in knowing that 100% dedicated to making sure that the students, the staff at the McCormick Denver, which is the public school there, which had recently got, you know, in receivership, has come out of receivership, struggling to, you know, be successful.
Speaker 3: It would be a really great support for the students and staff there. And they have openly and made sure that they're committed to be having the school use that as a gym. And that clubhouse all day during the school day is something that really mattered to me.
Speaker 3: And when I knew they were committed to that, that really makes a difference. So thank you, Counselor Baker, for bringing this up. And I hope also that other district counselors who know their neighborhoods best come forward to this council with their ideas of what they know that they need in their neighborhoods that we can use this money
Speaker 3: for. This is going to help our and I think it ties closely into the order I filed last week about mental health and making sure that we have spaces, safe spaces that are programed in this wonderful way for our students, for our children, for our, you know, our young adults.
Speaker 3: So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Counsel Murphy. I know counsel of clarity has his hand up, but let me go to the original co-sponsor next time, Counsel Baker. Sorry, Mr. President. I meant. I meant to ask to suspend Rule 12 and had counsel counsel Murphy on that believe it's Room 12 as an original co-sponsor.
Speaker 0: Mr. Clarke, can we please add Counsel Murphy as an original co-sponsor?
Speaker 1: Yes.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Clarke. The Chair recognizes counsel of clarity. Thank you, Mr. President. Great organization, great programing and great results. Please add my name. Thank you. Counsel Clarity. Please have counsel, clarity and counsel. Bach has her hand up.
Speaker 3: Counsel BACHELDER Thank you so much, Mr. President. I just wanted to say, and this really follows up on a comment that Counselor Murphy just made, that, you know, just to all counselors, that I'm definitely, as the chair of the COVID Recovery Committee, happy to hold hearings in order to create a public forum for counselors to present ideas
Speaker 3: they have about our funds. And so I would just say and although Counselor Baker framed this one in the form of an appropriation order, it would also be fine if somebody writes something more informal, sort of a hearing order formally, just as long as it's clear that you're expressing an interest in the ARPA dollars conversation.
Speaker 3: Because I know that we talked about, you know, we have a hearing that we're currently scheduling right now for talking about the ARPA dollars more holistically. And I think that holistic conversation is really important. But I just want to stress as the chair of that, that I'm very happy to create a forum for folks to raise ideas
Speaker 3: they have because as has been discussed, obviously, where the legislative body of the city and I do see that as their role to make sure the create that space wanted to underscore that point for everyone. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. Walk to those comments. Would anyone else like to speak on this matter? Would anyone else like to add their name? Please raise your hand if you'd like to have your name, please. And, Councilor Braden, please add the chair.
Speaker 0: Dawkins 0263 will be referred to the Committee on Boston's COVID 19 recovery. Personnel were offered onto personnel orders, of which we have none. Late files. I am informed by the clerk that there are zero way file matters. Green sheets.
Speaker 0: The City Council would like to remove the matter from the red sheets. You may do so at this time. We're moving on to the consent agenda. I have been informed by the court that the is that there are zero additions to the consent and consent agenda.

Speaker 1: Log in number 026 to Council of Florida for the following order for a hearing to discuss offering property tax abatements to property owners in the Newmarket area.
Speaker 0: The chair recognizes counsel. Clarity. Counsel, clarity. You of the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. As everybody on this body knows, particularly the district councils that have been covering this, the residents and business owners in the Newmarket and Mass and Cass area have experienced deteriorating and at times horrific conditions over the last several years.
Speaker 0: That includes decline in public safety, decline of public health, overall cleanliness in general, a decrease in their quality of life that are not necessarily reflected in property valuations in this area. As an at large councilor, I've done numerous walkthroughs with residents and business owners and advocates, along with neighborhood groups, city department leaders.
Speaker 0: And despite those efforts to increase city services and to better coordinate efforts across departments to meet the increased need in the area, and that includes expedited needle cleanup, sidewalk cleaning, mental health outreach and street workers, etc. We've still fallen short on our standards.
Speaker 0: So much so that the new market businesses have created a new market bid and are going around collecting fees from their members to finance supplemental services above and beyond what the city has been providing property taxes as folks now make up nearly 75% of our revenues.
Speaker 0: So again, suggesting an abatement for property taxes is not something that I take that I do serve lightly as a fiscal steward of the city. That said, I think this is a very unique and special case, and I feel that in recognition of our shortcomings, to provide an adequate level of city services to to the homeowners and
Speaker 0: to the business owners in the area, that we should explore the idea of offering a property tax abatement. Generally speaking, the driving idea behind this seeming order is the notion that taxpayers do deserve a high level of basic city services.
Speaker 0: And to some degree, I think we've dropped the ball here. And so looking forward to an expedited hearing, bring in the stakeholders. Let's talk about what area it would encompass and whether or not it makes sense for the city to offer them something even while the bid is ramping up.
Speaker 0: Maybe that's something that we can offer them. In addition to, we're going to be going at those businesses to to increase their contribution and or to make payments to the bid. And maybe we can offer them something in the short term that takes a little bit of a bite out of getting the bid going strong.
Speaker 0: And again, I know that there are folks here, our colleague Russell Baker is done, a lot of great work done. So Flynn on the bid not working with those folks. So this would be, I guess, a complement to that that if we can provide an abatement to to the residents, the homeowners business owners over there, you know
Speaker 0: , it may take a little bit out of their feeling that we, the city, have abandoned them over the last few years. As conditions continue to deteriorate in the area, they look forward again and feel free to hear some comments and welcome folks to sign on.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. Clarity. Would any other counsel like to speak on this issue? If you do, can you please raise your hand? I see. Counsel Arroyo, the chair recognizes Counsel Arroyo. You have the floor. Thank you. President Flynn, I just have a question for the chairman.
Speaker 0: Would this apply to the residential folks in the area as well for some of the same similar reasoning? Or is this just for the business folks? And why the distinction or difference? Great. Thank you for the question. As referenced in my comments, the focus will be on the homeowners, the residents that are there.
Speaker 0: That's sort of priority number one, the residents and then obviously the businesses, both of them combined equally. And I've done the walk, as I'm sure you have, as well as our other colleagues up and down all those neighborhood streets and listening to the talk about having to clean out the needles and having their cars broken into and
Speaker 0: having people urinating and defecating and literally having sex out front of their house in their window, all of it trash, graffiti. And they continue to call us. They continue to reach out to the city, to public works, to everyone that would listen.
Speaker 0: And again, they felt that it fell on deaf ears, just given the complexity of the situation and all the issues that were involved with it and trying to deal with it in a in a in both balancing sort of the public safety and the public health needs.
Speaker 0: And sometimes they were on the same page, sometimes they weren't. So the the homeowners, the residents and some of them some of the city's highest taxpayers are in are in some of these properties. So. So, yes, the question is there will be for both.
Speaker 0: Thank you for that clarification. Please add my name. President. Yeah. Please said council Moreno's name. Would anyone else like to speak on this matter before we go to talk to others? Council braided. Your hand is raised. Beg your.
Speaker 3: Pardon? Of my omission. I forgot to Norman's. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Okay. Okay. Consulate. Edwards, you have your hand raised. Okay. If. If you would like to add your name, please, please raise your hand. Please add. Councilor Murphy, Councilor Baker, Councilor Wirral, council me here. Councilor Edwards. Councilor Fernandez Andersson.
Speaker 0: Councilor Borg. Council Councilor Braden, please. The chair. Console illusion. Darkened 0 to 62 will be referred to the Committee on Ways and Means. Mr. Clerk, please read docket 0263, please.