Meeting: BostonCC_04132022
Date: 2022-04-13

---

Speaker 1: 05130513. Counsel is me here, and Laura offered the following resolution in support of the Out of Hospital Birth Access and Safe Act. 2341 The Senate 1519 in recognizing Black Maternal Health Week in the city of Boston.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Mr. Clarke. The Chair recognizes. Counsel me here. Counsel me here. You have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. And before I go on, I'd like to add Counselor Arroyo as an original co-sponsor.
Speaker 0: Mr. Clarke, please add Counselor Arroyo as an original co-sponsor. You have the floor councilman here.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. You know, I. When I gave birth to on the lease, I was considered a late H mom. I was 40, and I had gestational diabetes and a high risk pregnancy that ended in a C-section.
Speaker 2: And navigating the VA system was a bit traumatic considering all of the complications that I faced. But what I did not know was my rights and what I should be asking for and advocating on behalf of. And, you know, this conversation in terms of black maternal health is an issue of equity.
Speaker 2: And I think we have an opportunity here in the city of Boston to really lean into the conversation and help support the advocacy on behalf of this issue. We know that home births here in the city of Boston, not in the city of Boston, but just in general over the past years have risen dramatically.
Speaker 2: The new Center for Disease Control and Prevention reports showing that between 2019 and 2020, home birth rates rose 47% in Massachusetts alone. Out of births, births either at home or in birth centers are safe and beneficial and a valid reproductive choice that is currently denied to most birthing people here in Massachusetts because of certified professional midwives who
Speaker 2: attend low risk births in homes and birth centers, are not licensed in Massachusetts, despite being licensed in 37 states. And so had I had the option to have a home birth, probably my situation would have looked very different.
Speaker 2: Fortunately, there's legislation in the State House titled The Out of Birth, Hospital Birth Access and Safety Act has been filed, which seeks to establish within the Department of Public Health a licensing process for professional midwives and add them as medical slash MassHealth providers.
Speaker 2: Passing this legislation is crucial for supporting birthing people, closing the crucial safety gaps and expanding access to out of hospital birthing options, meeting people where they are and accommodating the needs of birthing persons to ensure that they feel comfortable, safe and well taken care of.
Speaker 2: It is crucial that we're making space for people with different preferences when it comes to birthing, and this legislation seeks to address just that. It also is very timely that this legislation is in the State House and we're currently celebrating Black Maternal Health Week in a time when historic and systemic inequities have resulted in the risk of
Speaker 2: death and severe mobility being two times as likely for black birthing women compared to white counterparts. And we need to be doing more to support this legislation to recognize black maternal health month. And I think it's all 365 days a year, especially as home birth rates have risen here by 36% among black birthing people in the United
Speaker 2: States and between 2019 and 2020. And for all those reasons, I'm excited to support this initiative and also just want to shout out this year to Brazil, who is leading now here in the city of Boston to have a birthing center right here in Boston.
Speaker 2: And I also want to give a shout out to Nurse Tiffany, the so who is in the labor and delivery, as well as Emily and Esther for all the work that they have been doing in this space. So just wanted to thank you both for your leadership and also to my co-sponsors for joining me on this.
Speaker 2: So I ask that we suspend the rules and pass this resolution. And I hope that my colleagues who have co-sponsored will rise up to the occasion to say a few words, too. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you. Councilman. Here, the chair recognizes council. Borough Council. You have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, President Flynn. And thank you, Councilor, for including me as your co-sponsor on this resolution. I am very happy to hear the share of Ariel's name invoked in the City Hall chambers as the shearer was my boss, the Boston Public Health Commission, when I worked there.
Speaker 2: And she taught me pretty much everything I know about home birthing. And I think that the city of Boston is incredibly lucky to have her working to open the first freestanding birth center in the city and ran by a black woman.
Speaker 2: Nevertheless, I'm excited that the Boston City Council has an opportunity to publicly support the out-of-hospital birth. Access its safety act and to recognize black maternal health week. This is an issue that is very near and dear to my heart as a mother.
Speaker 2: When it came time to make a decision about my birthing plan, I was bombarded with research and data that made it very clear to me that the decision to have a child, especially as a black woman, was a dangerous one.
Speaker 2: The United States has the worst maternal health mortality among all wealthy nations in the world. And it's the only nation with a maternal mortality rate has been rising every year. In Massachusetts, like Councilor Richard Black, working people are two times more likely to die or have a near miss than their white counterparts due to structural or interpersonal
Speaker 2: racism. And I know that it's kind of daunting to listen to that data and to listen to those facts. But there's a bright spot. And that bright spot is that most maternal health deaths are preventable, which means that we can do something about this crisis.
Speaker 2: When I decided to have a homebirth to give birth at home, I did it because I knew it would be the safest, most affordable option for me. My midwives and my doula were essential in ensuring that I had a joyous birthing experience.
Speaker 2: And our current laws in the state of Massachusetts make it so that experience is not accessible to everyone. I believe that all people deserve to have a birthday experience where they feel listened to, affirmed and cared for. And we should work to make that possible.
Speaker 2: Regardless of whether people are giving birth at home at a birthing center or at a hospital and working towards this like CC will make that possible. By supporting this resolution, we're acknowledging that the importance of safer, more equitable access to midwifery care options and the impact that offering those supports will ultimately have on the maternal health outcomes
Speaker 2: of black. And all birthing people in the city of Boston and across the state.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. Our the chair recognizes counsel. Royal counsel. You have the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you to Counselor Miki and Counselor Lara for sponsoring this and bringing this forward. And for all the advocates who've been doing work on this. When I did the racism as a public health crisis, I dug into a lot of different health metrics and things that impact health.
Speaker 3: And one of the most striking, disappointing and painful ones was the inequities that we see in black maternal health. Even in the Boston, where our hospitals are considered world renowned, we have these wide gaps and inequities in these unnecessary deaths.
Speaker 3: And frankly, it's it's painful to know that our children and their parents are experiencing outcomes largely due to the fact that they are black. And so we need to get to a place where we prioritize this, where we speak on this, and we move on this in a way that effectively addresses a very real issue.
Speaker 3: I hope to see real action on this because these numbers are scary. They are very disappointing. And we are in the year 2022 and this needs to be more of a focus issue. So thank you to those who have raised it.
Speaker 3: And thank you to those who continue to advocate for these kinds of protections. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Counsel Arroyo, would anyone else like to speak on this matter? The chair recognizes counselors and counselors. And you have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I just rise in support of this resolution. It is. I just want to reiterate that the numbers are scary, that black women are dying at rates that are should make us really jolt. And the number of stories from people in my own family, the number of time that I have had to exercise my
Speaker 2: strength as a lawyer to make sure that hospitals aren't discriminating against not only black women in the maternal health space, but in hospitals in general. So we have deep, deep health disparities where that we need to address. And there's so much work being done at the state level.
Speaker 2: At the state level, great advocates, which is why it's really important to help black women in spaces and legislative bodies really pushing for a black woman in our health. So just want to rise in support of this and rise in recognition of black maternal health.
Speaker 2: So I think thank you to the sponsors.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counselors. And, um, anyone else, so to speak, on this matter? The first the first hearing I had as a city councilor four years ago, I sponsored a hearing with with Mayor Janey, Councilor Janey. And we had this discussion on the health care of African-American woman.
Speaker 0: And as we as we recognized black maternal month this month. I just want to say thank you to the sponsors and the tremendous work that you're doing on this subject and to our city officials as well for the focus that they're out there doing as well.
Speaker 0: But this is an important issue, and we need to work together to make sure that the health care and services are available to everybody equally, especially especially women in need, women of color as well. So. Thank you to the sponsors.
Speaker 0: If anyone else would like to sponsor this, raise your hand, please. Please. Howard Councilor Baker. Council. Council President. Council. Fernandez Innocent Council. Florida Conservation Council. Murphy's Council. We're all pleased that the chair. Um, docket 0511 will be referred to the committee in Boston.
Speaker 0: I'm sorry. Yeah. Um, docket zero five. Oh, yeah. Dark 0513 councilors McGwire, Laura and Arroyo. They seek suspension of their roles in adoption of 0513. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed saying, Hey, we have it.
Speaker 0: The resolution has been passed. Mr. Clerk, please read doc 0514. Oh, we did that one. Mr. Clarke, please read docket 0515.0515.

Speaker 1: 0313.0313 The Committee and Community on the Community Preservation Act two, which was referred to a March 2nd 2022 docket number 0313 message in order for an appropriation amount in the amount of $27,205,854 for fiscal year 2022. Community Preservation Fund Revenues for Community Preservation Projects at the recommendation of the City of Boston, Community Preservation Committee submits a report
Speaker 1: recommending the order ought to pass.
Speaker 0: Thank you. The Chair recognizes counsel clarity. Chair of the Committee on Community Preservation Act. Counsel Clarity of the Floor.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. In accordance with General Laws, Chapter 44 BE The Community Preservation Committee recommended a total of 52 projects for consideration for the allowable uses of the community housing, open space and historic preservation. Of the approximately 27 plus million appropriation, 14,000,660 and 159,000 are being recommended for ten affordable housing projects.
Speaker 4: $6,141,357 recommended for 25 historic preservation projects and $6,404,338 recommended for 17 open space and recreation projects. This matter was sponsored by Mayor Michel Will, referred to the committee on March the second. As previously discussed at the last council meeting, the committee held a hearing on April 5th for public comment was taken and members of the administration provided
Speaker 4: testimony on all 52 projects. With that said, I am happy to report that the 52 recommended projects support and align with the objectives of the CPA and the priorities of this Council. And I know that is referenced in the opening prayer as we are in Holy Week.
Speaker 4: The prayers of the ministers and pastors in the congregation of a lot of churches were answered by the CPA this week, so congratulations to them and the other recipients of the many in much needed causes. And this was also a call to other organizations and groups and churches out there to take a long, hard look at CPA
Speaker 4: . Get the word out there also to my district and colleagues. If there are things in your district, if you are driving by something and you think it could be a good fit, that's kind of how this thing works.
Speaker 4: It's you get to introduce folks to CPA and introduce the CPA to the different organizations around the city. And as mentioned through the chair, it's an opportunity to kind of bring people and organizations together. So with that, as the chair, I recommend or could 0313 ought to pass then and that will be the full owner will be
Speaker 4: $27,205,854 from fiscal year 2022. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Counsel. Before we take a vote on this, does any council wish to speak? The chair recognizes. Councilman here. Councilman here. You have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Councilor Flynn. And thank you to the chair. I just, um. I'm really excited to see all of these investments. The only thing that I just want to point out that in the affordable housing line, most of those projects are just earmarked to Dorchester, Roxbury on Jamaica Plain, which is great.
Speaker 2: I'm glad to see more affordable housing, but I think as we continue to move through these conversations in the future, I would love to see affordable housing being spread across the entire city so that we're looking at affordability across other spaces and places.
Speaker 2: I just want to want to name that and something for us to continue to hold ourselves accountable to that. Affordability should be across the entire city, not just in concentrated areas. That's it. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman. Here, the chair recognizes council block. Council, block. You have the floor.
Speaker 5: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. Just as vice chair of the committee, I wanted to say add my support to the chair on approving the slate and also say that I really appreciated how much the administration came to also answer our questions, kind of about how CPR is being administered, how we measure the questions of equity, geographic
Speaker 5: distribution, how we make sure that the historic preservation program in particular supports the parts of our community that have amazing historic assets but don't necessarily have a endowment or a board or whatever organized around them. And I just as somebody who fought for EPA back in 2016, it's just really great to see it sort of coming in
Speaker 5: to that maturity and also to see the administration recognizing that it's still a work in progress in terms of how it puts all those things together. So I know I saw a docket go into Councilor Flaherty's committee today about the administrative budget for the year ahead.
Speaker 5: And so I think some of the conversations we started there will get to continue, but just really excited about this slate today. So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Counsel book the chair recognizes counsel Baker. Counsel Baker, you have the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I just have a quick question through the chair to the the other chair over here. I guess, does a 27 million does that deplete what we have in EPA now or do we start at a zero balance for 23 counsel?
Speaker 0: Clarity on the floor.
Speaker 4: Here, and I'll refer that one obviously to counsel because I think that they hold back, but then it's going to continue. It's a revolving door.
Speaker 3: So not necessarily depleted. This probably similar to what we do with the um.
Speaker 4: Yeah, there's a statutory hold back, but through the chair to counsel.
Speaker 0: Counsel to counsel blocking of the floor.
Speaker 5: Yeah. I would just say so there, there is a bit of a residual but it's not huge. But then we get a whole bunch more in like July 1st. So the. Wait at the CPA. For anybody watching at home.
Speaker 5: If you are thinking about applying for a CPA project, it's a rolling application process. So you and your group could submit an application today. If you go on the CPA website, there's actually a whole bunch of info sessions coming up in April and May, and I think the deadline for actually filing is all the way in August
Speaker 5: and then through the fall they work with projects around like viability and making you qualify for CPA. And then it's really the winter where we get this slate of projects and then voting in the spring. So it's kind of a year long process.
Speaker 0: Okay. Thank you, Counsel Bork. Thank you. Counsel Baker The chair recognizes Constitution Council and you have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you. And I want to echo something. Katzenbach said the administration really did a great job with their presentation in terms of allocation of CPA funding. I also just want to echo something, Counselor Flaherty said. When we're out and about, looking at, you know, what can need upgrades, I want us to pay particular attention to our immigrant
Speaker 2: communities. When we look at the distribution of who receive these funds, I don't see a lot of representation from immigrant congregations, from folks who may not have access to City Hall in ways that others do. So just a plug for us do be a lot more intentional about reaching out to communities that may not know about TPA
Speaker 2: or may not have access to folks who know about CPA.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Counsel. Again, the chair recognizes Counsel Fernandez Anderson. Counsel Fernandez Anderson. You have the floor.
Speaker 6: I guess just piggybacking off of my colleague sister occlusion. I think that, you know it's it's it's they did an amazing work presenting thank you to the chair and councilor Fox presented presentation and questions as well engagement it really I learned a lot from the presentation I think piggybacking off of Councilor Allusion, it's just really eye opening
Speaker 6: to see that access is everything. So everything that is getting preserved or rehabilitated and we'll probably see that in the budget as well, is about people who have access, people who are directly connected, people who know councilors, people who are politically connected as well.
Speaker 6: So if we continue that way in this city that we continue to rehabilitate and fix and put capital funds or preservation funds into projects that stakeholders or activists or people are of affluent communities. Even with the budget at the Tory budget process, with the community, we noticed that it was about 70% white and affluent communities, therefore empowerment
Speaker 6: , therefore knowledge and navigating of resources. So if we continue in this way, I would like to set precedent to at least to be if this is educational moment, an aha moment, whatever. Like let's get to the point where we actually put our money where our mouth is and actually start changing this thing.
Speaker 6: Because I heard one comment in there that was very offensive, extremely offensive. And to just like to even today, I can I'm still emotional about it about and I'm not going to call out names or anything like that.
Speaker 6: But it was about and it was a public thing. I guess I can talk about it. It was about Roxbury, Dorchester, Mattapan, not wanting or not caring about fancy stuff. And so what the hell does that mean? We do care.
Speaker 6: We do want that stuff. The thing is, is that we're so poor, we want to eat. We're just so busy, we're just so poor that we are so busy to just advocate on getting housing and food. So, of course, we're not our first focus is not get beautifying and fancy stuff.
Speaker 6: So I just to go back and I don't want to get sidetracked here, but I want to open up and encourage everyone in moving forward with any types of programs or any types of funds or any type of capital that we really open up our mind to look at how we're redistributing funds and how are people connected
Speaker 6: and how people get money because it really seems lopsided. And it really, as I said, it really seems like it goes to affluent communities because they are more connected and know how to advocate and understand how to reach this money.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Counsel Fernandez innocent. Anyone else like to speak on this? The chair recognizes Councilor Braden. Councilor Braden, you have the floor.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to. This is a great program. Um, we're still ironing out some of the kinks is fairly new. It's, it's putting a huge amount of money into projects that wouldn't necessarily be funded otherwise.
Speaker 7: I do share my colleague's concern about the geographic spread of of the allocation across the city. But part of that is I know from my experience and also in Brighton, I have a list of the back of my paper here of things that possibly would be eligible for some EPA money.
Speaker 7: But very often it is. You need community groups, you need people who are volunteers, your historic society or your neighborhood groups to really dig in and do the work to prepare these presentations. So I hope that we can ensure that community groups all across the city or our neighborhoods that need support, technical support and guidance.
Speaker 7: I know that the EPA has that technical support and guidance to help, but that people will be emboldened to sort of think about their neighborhood and and ask for help to prepare a presentation for CPA funds going forward.
Speaker 7: So it's a great program. I hope that we can expand the reach and and the distribution of funds going forward. And thank you for all the work that's been done so far. It's incredible, incredible group of folks that review all the applications and and present the ones for approval.
Speaker 7: So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you. Counsel Brain. Um, I would like to add that, you know, just want to say thank you to counsel, clarity, counsel and a former counselor counselor. Campbell Those three were really instrumental in bringing CPA two to Boston.
Speaker 0: So I want to recognize counsel by our counsel, clarity and counsel, former counsel Campbell bringing this to bringing us to the city. It's an incredible program, as everybody mentioned. Just. Just as just as a follow up to Councilor Braden's comment.
Speaker 0: In my district, I host a list. I host a session which each each neighborhood in my district on CPR itself, just try to encourage neighborhood associations to attend and to complete the application. So there's an important role for for us to play as well in the CPA staff will attend a meeting if we do ask them to
Speaker 0: attend. So let's all try to work together in bringing this program throughout the entire city. But let's also use our district city councils as well, because they have great contacts with neighborhood associations, community leaders and in the CPA will will gladly assist us in some of these outreach information sessions.
Speaker 0: So I just wanted to mention that in case it's helpful, anybody else like to speak on this matter. So thank you. Councilor Flaherty, the chair of the Committee on Community Preservation Acts. Councilor Farrelly seeks acceptance of the Committee report passage of Docket 0313.
Speaker 0: All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed say no. The ayes have it. The docket has passed. At this time. The chair recognizes counsel of our counsel. Our I apologize for not calling on you.
Speaker 2: Thank you so much, President Flynn. And I don't think that this will impact the vote at all. I unfortunately missed this hearing. And so I wasn't there for the process. But I because I missed the hearing, I set up a one on one meeting with the dean to ask these these questions ultimately.
Speaker 2: And so our office is hoping to. Look over the eligibility and create a list of eligible organizations and schools that didn't have access to these resources so that we can send a letter to those offices. I wanted to offer that to my colleagues because it's just we know it became it was evident to me as well as
Speaker 2: it became evident to everybody else that having access and knowing about the fund was a barrier to it. And so obviously that's gonna take some time to comb through the entire district and see, like, organizations or schools that are eligible.
Speaker 2: But our hope is that by sending kind of like a mail in letter and maybe doing some phone banking to like make calls to people to just let them know and having some of the community meetings that you just mentioned that it would increase.
Speaker 2: Access and just knowledge of the CPA program. I know that there are still going to be barriers because it is a grant. And although you don't have to be a grant writer to write it, you still have to have some sort of knowledge like council and said to put it together.
Speaker 2: But I think that letting people know about it is a good first step so we can actually ultimately see what the what the need is for more technical assistance and make sure that they, Dean and the CPA office, has all of the resources that they need to run the program effectively.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. Lara. One final comment, Councilman. Here.
Speaker 2: Yes. I'm here for all of that comes with a lot of and you know, I'm in my, what, 28 months here on the council. And the more that I am in this building, the more I realize the access of accessibility and who has it and who doesn't.
Speaker 2: So I really do think as we continue to move forward, all of these conversations are going to need to be led through an equity lens, as my colleague Fernandes Anderson says all the time. And I think that while I am voting yes and moving this along this time, I do believe that we need to hold ourselves to
Speaker 2: a higher standard when it comes to city resources, because the haves and the have nots continue to persist. And I think there's 13 members of this body and we all have a responsibility and making sure that we're serving all of our our all of our constituents.
Speaker 2: And right now, this as the end and as doled out does not really, truly reflect equity. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel here. Matters recently heard. Matters recently heard the possible action. Mr. Clerk, please read Docket.
Speaker 1: 01990199 order for a hearing on State Receivership for Boston Public Schools.

Speaker 1: 05200520 Council of Flynn for counsel.
Speaker 0: Around the suspension of the rules. Passage of docket 0520. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed say may. The ayes have it. The docket has passed. We're on to leave files. I am informed by the court that there are three late files, two late file matters and one personnel order.
Speaker 0: Yeah. Two personnel orders in one resolution. The late files should be on everyone's desk. We will take a vote to add this these items into the agenda. All those in favor of adding delay file matter into the agenda.
Speaker 0: CIA matters have been added to the agenda. Mr. Kirk, please read the first file into the agenda.
Speaker 1: Firstly far amount of personnel order for the Council of Flint for council or the chair.

Speaker 1: Docket number 0486 message on order approving an appropriation of $138,535,000 for the acquisition of interest in land or the acquisition of assets or the landscaping, alteration, remediation, rehabilitation and improvement of public land. The Construction Reconstruction. Rehabilitation Improvement Alteration.
Speaker 1: Remodeling, Enlargement, Demolition Removal or extra ordinary repairs of public buildings, facilities, assets, works, or infrastructure for the cost of feasibility studies or engineering or architectural services for plans and specifications for the development, design, purchase and installation of computer hardware or software and computer assisted integrated financial management and accounting systems and any and all costs incidental related to
Speaker 1: the above described projects for the purposes of the Boston Public Schools. Filed in the Office of the City Clerk on April 11, 2022. Docket number 0487 message in order authorizing a limit for the Boston Public Schools Revolving Fund for fiscal year 2023 to support the maintenance and repair of Boston Public School facilities, including custodial and utility costs

Speaker 1: So I could number 0485 message in order approving an appropriation of $550,370,000 for the acquisition of interest in land or acquisition of assets or the landscaping, alteration, remediation, rehabilitation, improvement of public land, the construction reconstruction, rehabilitation improvement alteration, remodeling, enlargement, demolition removal or extraordinary repairs of public buildings, facilities, assets, works, or infrastructure for the cost of feasibility
Speaker 1: studies or engineering or architectural services for plans and specifications. For the development, design, purchase and installation of computer hardware and software and computer assisted integrated financial management and accounting systems. And any and all costs, incidental or related to the above described projects for the purposes of various city departments, including Boston Center for Youth and Families, Department of
Speaker 1: Innovation and Technology, Environment, Failure, Neighborhood Development, Office of Arts and Culture, Parks and Recreation. Police, Property Management, Public Works and Transportation Departments. Boston Public Library. Boston Redevelopment Authority and Public Health Commission. Filed in the Office of the City Clerk on April 11th, 2022.

Speaker 1: Such funds will be transferred and credited to the Capital Grant Fund from revenue received from the Commonwealth Transportation Infrastructure Enhanced Enhancement Trust Fund filed in the Office of the City Clerk on April 11th, 2022. Dark and amber zero 44 message in order authorizing the city of Boston to enter into one or more leases, lease purchase or installment
Speaker 1: sales agreements in fiscal year 2023 in amount not to exceed $36 million. These funds are to be used by various city departments for the acquisition of equipment in furtherance of their respective governmental functions. The list of equipment includes computer equipment, hardware and software.
Speaker 1: Motor vehicles and trailers. Ambulances. Firefighting equipment. Office equipment. Telecommunications equipment. Photocopying equipment. Medical equipment. School and educational equipment. School busses, parking meters. Street lighting, installation, traffic signal equipment and equipment functionally related to and components of the foregoing. Filed in the office of the City Clerk on April 11, 2022.
Speaker 1: So I could number 0485 message in order approving an appropriation of $550,370,000 for the acquisition of interest in land or acquisition of assets or the landscaping, alteration, remediation, rehabilitation, improvement of public land, the construction reconstruction, rehabilitation improvement alteration, remodeling, enlargement, demolition removal or extraordinary repairs of public buildings, facilities, assets, works, or infrastructure for the cost of feasibility

Speaker 1: 0265 In order authorizing the City of Boston to accept and expand a grant funded through the coronavirus, state and local fiscal recovery fund. C o. F. R f. In the Treasury of the United States, established by Section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, a r awarded by the United States Department of the Treasury.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Recognizes Council Bach, Chair of the Committee on Boston COVID 19 Recovery Council. You have the floor.
Speaker 5: Thank you so much, Mr. President. Last night we had a great hearing on the potential of utilizing ARPA funds to support the Dorchester Field House was sponsored by a Councilor Baker and I want to thank colleagues for joining councilors Murphy, Flaherty, Louis Flynn, Worrell, Edwards and Fernando Sanderson and also to councilman here for sending a letter in
Speaker 5: support. It was you know, it's it's great to have colleagues in these chairs, but it was even better to have the young people here last night. And it was really, I think, inspiring to see what it looks like when young people are involved in a planning process.
Speaker 5: And then they actually get to talk about it and talk about the way that they have seen their agency reflected. So I think that was a real highlight for us here from the Youth Advisory Board panel, as well as being joined by the Martin Richard Foundation and the Boys and Girls Club of Dorchester.
Speaker 5: So we heard extensive presentations from Bob Scannell, Dutch Joyce, Kevin de Blair. And then, as I mentioned, that youth advisory board and also heard from Mr. Bill Richard and a large number of community testifiers. So, um, the Boys and Girls Club of Dorchester, in partnership with the Martin Richard Foundation, is proposing a field house that is designed
Speaker 5: to be adjacent to the depth. The McCormick Clay School is on a ground lease from land. One of the subjects of the the conversation was about making it deeply accessible to students. So they've been working on an MBA to make sure that both every student there gets access as a member of the club, and also that during
Speaker 5: the day it could actually be used as an extension of the school facilities. So I think we had a really robust, exciting conversation. And I also just want to, as chair, say that, you know, what Councilor Baker was modeling last night is that if councilors have proposals that they want to have considered obesity, the American rescue plan
Speaker 5: funds sort of. In concert with us looking at the proposals that are coming across the transom today from the mayor, that I encourage folks to file a docket and that my intention is to hold hearings on kind of some of the subject matter areas that the mayor's made proposals on and to co notice that with dockets from
Speaker 5: counselors that are related to this subject area. So I think, you know, this has to be for us to spend these one time funds in the best possible way. It has to be a collective conversation between the council and the mayor.
Speaker 5: And I think we had a very good go at that last night. So I just really want to thank everybody who testified we were here until 8 p.m., but it was just about the most cheerful till 8 p.m. hearing I've been a part of.
Speaker 5: And I think the students who are here in the chamber were taking photos and investigating the space after 8 p.m. and yeah, and I think some of them are probably coming for our seats before too long. So with that, Mr. Chairman, because we're continuing to consider the American Rescue Plan funds, I would ask that this docket remain
Speaker 5: in committee and also would obviously defer to the sponsor if you wanted to say a few words.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Counselor. BLOCK The chair recognizes Counselor Baker. Counsel Baker, you have the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. Is. My concern with the ARPA money is. That we are going to spend it all and not have anything to show for it. I mean, we we're in our budget initial discussion today and basically there was 350 million there that that they are looking to just send around 30 later gone.
Speaker 3: I don't know about anybody else, but I haven't been asked my opinion on where I think the money should be spent. This was a way for me to get my opinion on record here and in for a little bit of history.
Speaker 3: On a Columbia Point was formerly the city dump, and it was a Columbia Point housing project, which is probably the most overlooked, one of the worst in the country, but one of one of the first. Also, they sent in the I believe it was early fifties.
Speaker 3: They sent 5000 families over on the on the peninsula one way and one way out. No stores, no amenities, no playgrounds, nothing. The peninsula is a different place now. We have we have Dorchester Bay City looking to do some building over there that will connect on to UMass.
Speaker 3: And we have this project right here in a time where we have. Not just kids, but all of our families are suffering to some degree with what just happened to us and in COVID and just being shut in and trying to figure out how we how we get on with life and how we heal as a city
Speaker 3: , as communities. And I believe in my heart that this building here. We'll go a long way at doing that. And $10 million is a lot of money. It's a big yes. I've never asked for $10 million. Someday, maybe I'll be asking for 10 million for myself someplace but 10 million out of three.
Speaker 3: It's not from Ways and Means to 10 million. 10 million out of the 350 million that's available to us now is 2.8%. 10 million is 2.8% of what's left on the $350 million. And that's not including what's going into what the school has.
Speaker 3: BP's budget has they have another 400, $500 million. This project this project will provide everything from indoor fields. So when we when we have 15 feet of snow, we can still play soccer. We can still play baseball. We can still play lacrosse in the middle of the winter.
Speaker 3: We'll have basketball courts will have. We'll have. Sorry. We will have performance spaces. We will have spaces that that will will be dedicated to kids with disabilities that may have sensory issues. Will, will, will, will allow the challenge of leagues to come in.
Speaker 3: And the challenge leagues are set up for kids that have disabilities that are in wheelchairs so they can experience sport. There'll be a test kitchen in the. Basically this this project, if we do end up coming for a vote, we're kind of figuring out how we end up doing.
Speaker 3: The vote isn't for me. It isn't my vote. The vote was for the kids that were here last night that totally amazed a lot of people that I think were in the audience. And it's this sort of investment in our future, in our kids that's going to allow them to be successful into the future.
Speaker 3: We're a different city now than we were 1980 and 1980 when I was growing up. All fields are all terrible where I mean, the best baseball I played was on. I was on a hard parking lot that it shouldn't be the case anymore.
Speaker 3: We have technology. We have really, really good. Building systems where this building will be teaching and.
Speaker 2: Training.
Speaker 3: And healing. Not just kids, but families for generations. And part of the larger picture, this will be infrastructure that will be community infrastructure before we have a whole lot more development over there in the next 10 to 15 years, akin to the seaport.
Speaker 3: Not necessarily to that scale. But there's going to be a lot of building that happens over there. And one of the criticisms on the seaport is there's no space for families or kids to run, to play, to. To have a community in this would be in their first and a $10 million investment with from the city of
Speaker 3: Boston would allow us to really position. The large foundations in the city to say, okay, the city's committed. The state will. I shouldn't say will, but I feel confident the state's going to come up with a good a good bit of money also.
Speaker 3: And the whole peninsula, the whole Columbia Point Peninsula. And when I look at the Columbia Point Peninsula, I do it from standing with the with the globe in front of me. The globe is now going to be is is is the bead.
Speaker 3: It's going to be 700,000 square feet of lab space research and development, which is part of excuse me, it's going on so long, but I need to get this out, which is part of the whole. New industry that's coming to Boston.
Speaker 3: It's it's biotech. It's high tech manufacturing. We don't know the jobs. None of us here know the jobs. You know what plumbers are? We know what crop and design. We don't know. Well, I don't know. Maybe I'm maybe I'm being a some making assumptions, but we don't know what the people in those labs are doing.
Speaker 3: The globe's going to be training towards those jobs. The project at Dorchester Bay City is going to be connected on to on to UMass is going to be training towards those jobs. The whole peninsula is going to avail us the opportunity for kids to build.
Speaker 3: So. The peninsula is going to be 0 to 16. Training and development of young minds. And this is the first step of it right here. And it's an amazing, amazing building concept. And I think that when it gets built.
Speaker 3: Regardless if the city gives us 10 million or not, this thing's going to get built. It helps us a lot if the city is committed. But when this thing gets built, we're all going to be able to look at and point out.
Speaker 3: I see. I want one of those in my district and we're going to be able to do that. We're going to be able to take that model and replicate it because it's not just like when I was growing up, it was all sports.
Speaker 3: It was that was the only outlet you had. We weren't thinking about we weren't thinking of singing. We weren't thinking of poetry. It's all different here now. There's so many different ways to form the child. This building is going to form.
Speaker 3: The child is going to form. The community. And the most important thing that I heard last night was from a young kid that said, we want to add to the good in the world. This is going to add to the good in the world.
Speaker 3: And that's why it's a formal request for $10 million across the hall to say, look at it. Pay attention to it. This is the way we should be spending our ARPA dollars. And I don't you know, I don't want to poo poo on any other way that we're spending ARPA dollars.
Speaker 3: I don't necessarily agree with a lot of it because I think it's going to feel like a Vegas weekend when we're done that pockets are empty, we got nothing to show for it. Right. I want to be able to point to it.
Speaker 3: Look at this thing right here, $10 Million. You know, we won in Vegas. We hit it craps. I'm bringing 100,000 home or whatever. You know what I'm saying? Making the analogy. I don't want to feel like we went to Vegas and it's all gone.
Speaker 3: So thank you for allowing me to ground on there a bit. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Counsel Baker. The chair recognizes. Councilor Fernandez Anderson. Council. Fernandez Anderson. You have the floor.
Speaker 6: If it's okay with you. Council President, it's council me here. Council Murphy. Council Fernando Sanderson. Then council for clarity.
Speaker 0: Okay. The chair recognizes calcium here. Calcium here you have the floor.
Speaker 2: So in this tired of me standing up, that's why he's trying to silence me. You know that's not going to happen. So I just quickly wanted to say, and I really do appreciate Councilor Baker's advocacy on behalf of this particular project.
Speaker 2: I also would be remiss if I didn't mention that there was a little bit of a controversy in regards to this very specific piece of land. The McCormick students, the faculty and some of the folks really wanted to keep that space green and there is some tension there.
Speaker 2: And I think it's important for us as we continue to move forward in this conversation that, you know, in the true spirit of really reflecting community voice, that we, you know, we honor that and we just uplift it because that is definitely something that was said in the presidency or that community voice is also being overlooked.
Speaker 2: So I just wanted to name that. And while I appreciate, you know, the whole vision of what the city could look like ten years from now, I also want to be 100% that the city, what it's going to look like ten years from now is not going to be a lot of us being able to go to
Speaker 2: this beautiful community center that that we're fighting for, because we're not going to be able to afford to live here in the city. So I think that while it's really beautiful and I'm excited to to support this initiative, I think it's also important for me to uplift.
Speaker 2: The fact of the matter is, is that every day the city changes and the beauty, the beautiful things that we're fighting for, most likely most of our people are not going to be able to benefit from it. So while I support this project, I want to do so with naming that.
Speaker 2: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Here, the chair recognizes Councilor Murphy. Councilor Murphy, you have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you. So it was a very inspiring hearing. And I just want to thank my D-3 city councilor Frank Baker for advocating so strongly for this project, but always showing up in the district and advocating for your constituents.
Speaker 2: So as one of your constituents, I did just want to take this time to say thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Counselor Murphy. The chair recognizes counselors and counselors. And you have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to thank Counselor Bach and Counselor Baker for holding this hearing last night. Those students were extremely impressive. I have obviously a bias for some of the students. I'm a McCormick kid myself, and a lot of McCormick kids were here.
Speaker 2: I played basketball, track and field at McCormick because we didn't have a good track. We didn't have our own track. At McCormick, we had to use RBC High's track, right? A private school.
Speaker 3: In. But we also.
Speaker 2: Use the outdoor area for recess. And I think that it's important as we look at this project, to also think about the outdoor space and how we can maintain as much outdoor space as possible for the McCormick kids.
Speaker 2: There's also the issue of McCormick is merging with Buchla. That's going to add a lot more students to the campus, students who should be able to access the outdoors pretty freely. I'm also really encouraged by a memorandum of agreement that will exist between the project and the school so that we make sure that our our students in
Speaker 2: the area, both in the DeVry, the McCormick, BCA and McCormick UCLA, are able to access the site in a welcoming and and fully accessible way. So I look forward to further discussions about this project and also to honoring the voices of those who live in Columbia Point.
Speaker 2: They also presented a letter before the BPA announcing some of their concerns, which I think that we just need to take into account when we're considering this project. I also think, Councilor Baker, because last night, one of the things that he mentioned was that this project is a it could be a really great project in response to
Speaker 2: the reckoning that we are having and experiencing here in our city and in the country, trying to find spaces where we can find common ground. I think this project, especially with the use of ARPA funds, would really create a precedent and I think that is a precedent that I'd like to see a lot of our communities, especially
Speaker 2: communities of color use and how we're sending and supporting private initiatives, even though it's a nonprofit, it's not it's not a public initiative. And then, yeah, I think something else that was said was we should be creating beautiful buildings as a city.
Speaker 2: We can do that. We have the capacity to do that. And I'd like to see us build more beautiful buildings that really honor and affirm the dignity of all of our young ones. We as a city have the capacity and ability to do that with the land that is in within our purview.
Speaker 2: And so I want to I want to see us doing more of that. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. And the chair recognizes counsel. Flannery Council. Flannery, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 4: Just want to go on record and support, strong support of this. And I think it's important to note that both of these organizations have a stellar track record in delivering real deliverables to children and to families in Dorchester.
Speaker 4: I referenced at the hearing it's a it's a it's a gem of a location. You think about the Columbia Point housing project across the street, depending on who's golfing. It's a five iron from the memorial. McCormick, where I was born.
Speaker 4: The old have a projects, right? Think about the partnerships with the McCormack and the Devore BC High UMass. All the jobs that are going to be coming online at the Bayside Expo. Don't forget the Geiger Gibson Community Health Center there and the the plan to revitalize the JFK train station.
Speaker 4: So lots of opportunity down there if there's ever an organization or partnership that is going to help close these gaps. We're looking at them. And I think it's also important to note the the author or the first speaker did mention that the collective partnerships, both in the private and public sector, that this this ask there are there
Speaker 4: are matches that are lined up with that match. To put this in a shovel ready position, which is what clearly we want to make sure that happens. So, I mean, if you can think about what is sort of been in front of me and my team in terms of the future of that peninsula, it's absolutely amazing.
Speaker 4: And to think about the pipelines that are coming from these schools to those other institutions to those jobs, particularly in the STEM field, will be servicing these kids in the sort of the first two priorities will be the high point.
Speaker 4: The housing development in just on the other side of the circle will be kids from the Marilyn McCormack I mean sky is the limit that not not hard to get excited about this so I think this will be it's a modest request frankly particularly given that the matches that are lined up to make this a reality for
Speaker 4: the folks over there on Mount Vernon Street and for futures to come, you know, the track record of these organizations, not fly by night, not Johnny come lately is not mediocre kicking butt in their respective fields. And it's about children and families and they will be served.
Speaker 4: Our most vulnerable residents in the city. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. Finally that she recognizes counsel FERNANDEZ Innocent Council. Fernandez Innocent. You have the floor.
Speaker 6: Thank you. Councilor Baker, thank you so much for actually filing this. And. And before I go in to talk about why I support the project, I go back to my point about, you know, it's it's so it's one thing to actually know that there's a disparity in certain areas, but it's another than to have to get people
Speaker 6: on technicalities or bureaucratic processes before you can have access. So it's I've been working in the last hour, my my office and my team and I have been working the last three months in building asset mapping comparative data across the city and looking at the deficits.
Speaker 6: We have a list of those companies and nonprofits and organizations. We know exactly everything that Roxbury needs by now because we've been doing the study for the last four months, actually, before I even got inaugurated. But then there's the other thing that in 2022, Boston understands deficits and yet only provides to those who have access.
Speaker 6: That's odd. And so then the question is, it's like you slapping me twice. You know the problem. You don't fix the problem. But then when you fix the problem, you give the other side double the money of what you could give me or what you end up giving me.
Speaker 6: So we are going to be looking at those things to see if any of what I'm saying makes sense. But I learned a lot from the presentation yesterday. Oh my God. Like you have the resources Boys and Girls Club does.
Speaker 6: I connected to everything there. The three girls that were here, they were all West African, right? You pull them my heart strings. The Burtons, you had BPD. Like it was such a sorrow and such a influential presentation. How could I not?
Speaker 6: It was holistic. It was impressive. We want one of every BP's. We want BP to look like that. Right. So I agree with confusion. If we are to sit for forward, is this what we're doing? This is a new culture, y'all.
Speaker 6: We're setting precedents. This is what we're doing. What we can do is actually access money. This is what this government says. We can access money. And if you don't have access.
Speaker 2: You, Counselor Laura, will.
Speaker 6: Help us with technicalities. And if you don't know how to present counsel, Baker will help with that. And if you see disparity, counselor, me here will help you advocate. We have what it takes. We have the money and we have all of that.
Speaker 6: Yet I'm I'm I guess I'm just spilling over because I'm looking at all of the projects that's already proposed and I'm looking at what's happening. And now I'm learning little by little, all snap. I'm a rookie. I don't know, Jack.
Speaker 6: That's why it's just bypassing me so fast. And meanwhile, people are, like, suffering, so I support you. It doesn't take away from your project or their project. It doesn't take away right it right wrongs wrong. If it's a good project, let's support it and let's keep it moving.
Speaker 6: Let's do the same for other communities. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you. Council Fernandez Anderson for I call counsel Baker. I just wanted to weigh in. I had the opportunity to attend last night's meeting as well. And just listening to the young, young children there from from the McCormick School talk about how important this this facility would be to them.
Speaker 0: They don't they don't have money. They don't have any influence. A lot of them a lot of them actually live in public housing developments. But they're. I said that they should have a state of the art facility. That's as nice as any one in the city or nice as anyone in Lincoln of Wellesley.
Speaker 0: Those kids certainly deserve it. Council So I already mentioned that it's walking distance and as did Counsel Baker from the Mary Ellen McCormack Public Housing Development, which council counsel Baker represents. But it's probably the most difficult and challenging environment, living environment in the city.
Speaker 0: Um, so I just want to say thank you to Counsel Baker for advocating hard for your constituents. And I appreciate that that type of level of advocacy that you've provided. Most of them. Most of them have kids, kids of color, kids in public housing developments.
Speaker 0: A lot of a lot of African-American kids, black necks kids, a large, large Vietnamese population as well. And in Dorchester. So just want to recognize the live work counselor Counsel Baker did on that. Let me let me ask let me call on Counselor Baker.
Speaker 0: Now, Counsel Baker, you have the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to make a couple more points, and I apologize. So in 1974 for us here in Boston, on my side of the city, I was passed over to the devil to the devil school.
Speaker 3: This parking lot looks exactly the same that I did in 1974. So for us to try and hold on to this, I think is a bit shortsighted. We should be shooting for more B.S. high across the street is is getting ready to spend $49 million on fields and field houses directly across the street.
Speaker 3: So that means our kids in the Devil McCormac will be looking out over the fence saying, Look what's going on over there for them. BCI had one benefactor that gave them the $49 million. We're asking for ten to go towards this end.
Speaker 3: And some things happened in the redesign about the open space because before the kids were totally involved, it was more like a large one story kind of took up a lot. It took up a lot of light through the student council.
Speaker 3: They pulled the building in and went vertical with it. So it's it's it's on, it's on floors which provides. An open line on the on the front on Mount Vernon Street, which would be the only one on front on on Mt. Vernon Street.
Speaker 3: There will be outdoor basketball courts will be a lot of outdoor space here. That's that wasn't there in the original design and that came from involving that involving the teens. There's three housing developments that speak to ten years down the line.
Speaker 3: There's three housing developments, like you mentioned, within walking distance of the Harbor Point. Of course, Miriam Cormack and Old Colony, all calling might be, you know, might be a little more than a walk. But certainly if you have something to walk towards, you just go towards it.
Speaker 3: And that's I think, in those three developments is almost 2000, 2000 kids under the age of 21. So, I mean, and those are those are units that are going to be deeply affordable. For all of our lifetimes in those in those housing developments.
Speaker 3: So in 021202125, which is where this city, which is part of my district, which is where I grew up, has been identified as the most diverse district, the most diverse zip code in the entire country. So that means all people are congregating in zero two, 125 and this is going to be in 0 to 1 two five
Speaker 3: . But it's not just going to be 40125. It's going to be for Mattapan. If they if they can get there, it's going to be for South Boston. It's going to be for whoever wants to get there. I envision citywide track meets the citywide basketball tournaments.
Speaker 3: So I think. I understand the the the tension, the initial tension that was about saving green space. But I challenge anybody to go look at the green space is a green space. Is it green space? Is brown grass.
Speaker 3: Green space is a cracked parking lot with some paint on. Is that green space? I don't know. I think this is.
Speaker 2: Far more.
Speaker 3: Important.
Speaker 2: Far more.
Speaker 3: It will be it will deliver far more in the development of our kids than just open space. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Counsel Baker. Docket 0265 will remain in committee motions. Orders, resolutions. Mr. Clerk, please read 05100510.

Speaker 1: 05120512. Councilors were all in clarity after the following order for a hearing regarding allocating ARPA funds to a homeownership voucher program.
Speaker 0: The chair recognizes counsel. Earl. Counsel. Earl. You have the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you. President Flint. Can I suspend Route 12 and add.
Speaker 0: Councilor Bach as.
Speaker 3: A original co-sponsor?
Speaker 0: Yes. Having heard no objections, please add counsel advocate as an original co-sponsor. You have the full council rule.
Speaker 3: Thank you. And thank you to my co-sponsors, Councilor Flaherty and Council. BLOCK As the African thought leader once said, people are not fighting for ideas. The things that anyone said they are fighting to win material benefits, to live better and in peace, to see their lives go forward, to guarantee the future of their children.
Speaker 3: We have watched thousands of longtime residents leave Boston because of the rising cost of housing. Our neighbors, who have called Boston home for decades, cannot afford to purchase a home in their hometown and struggle to keep up with the rising costs of rent through the federal Section eight voucher program.
Speaker 3: We are able to subsidize rent and voucher holders are able to use their vouchers to purchase a home. In addition to expanding Section eight vouchers. We as a city can create our own voucher program. I'm a B, a little bit creative, and I came up with a name for it, but it's called the Boston Priority Housing Voucher
Speaker 3: , where we have the.
Speaker 0: Flexibility to define who.
Speaker 3: Is eligible for the assistance and would be able to create equity applicants like we have done in other programs. This is an opportunity to bring much needed housing assistance to long term Boston residents who are stuck in the middle.
Speaker 3: I've come across many of our neighbors who make too much to qualify for housing assistance but do not earn enough to purchase a home by layering relief. We will provide our neighbors with a clear path to the middle class as interest rates go up.
Speaker 3: Borrowing requirements will become more strict to increase homebuyers buying power. It would take more than just down payment assistance. If we are serious about homeownership, let's put Bostonians in the best positions to purchase and make Boston their permanent home and to continue on with Councilor Baker's analogy.
Speaker 3: Imagine, imagine going to Vegas, rolling the dice, being able to buy everyone in the city of Boston the home. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counselor. All the chair recognizes counsel. Clarity. Counsel, clarity. You have the floor.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. That sounds like a chicken in every pot. So. But I want to obviously want to thank the the the lead sponsor for his leadership and partnership. We've been back and forth on this over the last couple of weeks, just trying to pull things together.
Speaker 4: And I just think it's important to note that our rental and homeownership markets are extremely competitive and are among the most expensive in the United States. And parallel to that is the cost of living in Boston has increased steeply over the last decade.
Speaker 4: Everybody in this room has heard from a constituent, a friend and neighbor on this issue. And all of us know long term residents and families that are being forced out of the city, a city that they know they love, a neighborhood they love, and to grow up with because they can't meet that.
Speaker 4: That's that financial crunch. And so I know it's a serious problem. We're quickly becoming the city of the very rich and the very poor. And interesting to note, at a hearing last night, my team and I heard from a landlord that rents to folks in his neighborhood at a well below market rate.
Speaker 4: And I know he's not alone. It's not an overabundance of it. But there are a lot of small landlords that rent to to their neighbors. And and that happens across the city. However, these landlords are starting now to express their own distress at rising costs in our city, whether it's property tax, maintenance and repair of those properties
Speaker 4: , and then now having to make decisions as to whether they can continue to do that and and continue to provide below market rents in light of the increasing cost. And and now they're starting to grapple with having to increase those rents so that they don't find themselves going into a hole.
Speaker 4: This dynamic, it's separate from sort of the focus of this hearing. But I raise it because I think it's important because we do have to stop bullying the small lenders. If they stop doing that, that's only going to sort of further exacerbate the crunch for affordable rental opportunities that give renters a chance to to stay in their
Speaker 4: communities. And so home homeownership is is the best way to build equity and generational wealth in Boston. That goal is becoming further and further out of reach. And I want to note that the the one plus Boston mortgage program, it works and it's making a difference.
Speaker 4: Not enough of our lending institutions are participating, and that's a whole other issue that we can address. But I think it's important to note that that program is an incredible program that helps income eligible first time buyers gain buying power in the market.
Speaker 4: And I think that this is sort of what we were getting at and obviously leaning into this with the lead sponsor and obviously in council box experience here providing direct cash for assistance to fund this to 2 to 4 income eligible first time homebuyers, whether that's cash for down payments, whether that's a cash for it to help
Speaker 4: with the closing cost, that could be cash to bridge a loan will make the difference between someone getting in a home and or not getting an A home. And so I think that's sort of the spirit of what we're looking to do here.
Speaker 4: I look forward to a robust discussion about this. Welcome. Any additional ideas and feedback. But we talked at length about the Section eight voucher. And is there another opportunity? Is there another voucher out there that can again, sort of close those those gaps when it comes to homeownership?
Speaker 4: And and I think that this may be the answer to that. So look forward to working with the lead sponsor and the co-sponsor and all my colleagues to try to make this a reality. No, no different game changer.
Speaker 4: Nothing will do a better job of creating generational wealth than a person owning their own home. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. Clarity. The Chair recognizes counsel for counsel. You have the floor.
Speaker 5: Thank you so much, Mr. President. And this is another thing that I'm excited to have come to the Code Recovery Committee and be part of our conversation there, because I think it's exciting that the administration is proposing in their proposal to have the most money going to affordable homeownership than that we've ever done in the city.
Speaker 5: But I think that when I talk to colleagues on the council and there are so many advocates of homeownership that I'm hesitant to start naming them, but Councilor Louis Jen, Councilor Fernandes, Anderson, Councilor Brady, I mean, we talk about these all the time.
Speaker 5: And I think part of what I've heard coming from Councilor Warrell is whatever we do for affordable homeownership, we've got to make sure that it's actually hitting the right people, that programs are actually that the folks who we all talk to, who we know need them, that especially they are first time homebuyers of color and first generation
Speaker 5: Omar, that these are actually the programs that serve that group and fit that middle. And so I think there's been a bunch of interesting suggestions proposed on the affordable homeownership. Run by councilors. Councilor Royle's proposal is that it's the one that's before us today.
Speaker 5: I think the idea of really putting those side by side with what the Mayor's Office of Housing is thinking and really drilling down and making sure that homeownership money is well targeted to hit that missing middle and keep folks in the city is a really important role for this council.
Speaker 5: So I'm looking forward to being able to have this conversation side by side about that funding allocation. So thank you, Mr. Chair.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilor Borg. The Chair recognizes Councilor Braden. And Councilor Braden, you have the floor.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to also thank the world for taking this initiative and bringing this forward. Homeownership, someone mentioned recently, is the most reliable way to control your rent because you have a if you have a 30 year mortgage, you can predict your housing costs for the city in the way out.
Speaker 7: And it's it's a way to build generational wealth. Sadly, we are seeing our neighborhoods been impacted by folks who've grown up in the neighborhoods. Even folks who've had their families have owned a home in the neighborhoods. The next generation cannot see a future in which they will be homeowners in our city and in many of our immigrant
Speaker 7: community are leaving the city because their rents are just sort of unaffordable in relation to their earning capacity, that they're relocating to other other cities and are further out like Brockton and Framingham, etc.. So one of the big issues that we're faced with, a lot of potential folks who want to buy a home are competing with investors
Speaker 7: who come into our neighborhoods with $1,000,000 in cash and put the money down before the house. Can even the two family home that come even come onto the market and then they rent out those homes, those two family and three family homes, $1,000 a bedroom, that's those.
Speaker 7: And that's generating $55,000 a month from a from a unit in a two family home. Working families can't afford that housing. Folks work together. Young professionals or students can group together and pay up. But this is a totally unsustainable way to go for housing going forward.
Speaker 7: So not only do we need to think about this type of a voucher program to help homeowners folks get into the homeownership and and have a home have a home to build generational wealth. But I also think we need to really seriously look at the mechanisms to try and disincentivize this speculative investment that is driving families out
Speaker 7: of our city. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilor Braeden, the chair, recognizes Councilor Fernandez Anderson. Councilor Fernandez Anderson, do you have the floor?
Speaker 6: I think this is an amazing idea, right. Especially since I file something extremely similar to it. So I'm wondering in how we can work together to merge the two so that we can make it work. I think there's room for us to do work together.
Speaker 6: And so if I file something and this looks super similar, then we should work together. And I'm wondering then if how how we create the space to do that same points using using alternative ways to create home ownership, especially with low aims, qualifying them through different vouchers assistance programs.
Speaker 6: Same point. So I just I just think that great minds think alike. I appreciate you, Brian, and I respect you. I think we have we want to fight on the same side. And I want to work with you and see how we can merge the two ideas.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you, Councilor Fernandez Anderson. Would anyone else like to speak on this matter or add their name? If you please, Regi. Raise your hand, Mr. Carr. Squeeze out Council of Royal Councilor Baker, Councilor Braden, Councilor Fernandez, Innocent Council Ora Councilors and Council on the Here Council.
Speaker 0: Council and the Chair. Dark 0511 will be referred to the Committee on Boston's COVID 19 recovery. Mr. Clerk, please. Re Docket.
Speaker 1: 05130513. Counsel is me here, and Laura offered the following resolution in support of the Out of Hospital Birth Access and Safe Act. 2341 The Senate 1519 in recognizing Black Maternal Health Week in the city of Boston.

Speaker 1: Docket number 0503 message in order authorizing the city of Boston to accept, accept and expend the amount of $394,500,000 in the form of a grant awarded by the United States Department of Treasury to be administered by the city of Boston.
Speaker 1: Chief Financial Officer. Collector. Treasurer. This grant payment is made from the coronavirus, state and local fiscal recovery from the fund so far in the Treasury of the United States, established by section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 A are paid.
Speaker 1: Pursuant to the requirements of the AARP, the grant payment would fund COVID 19 response and recovery efforts and accelerate a Green New Deal for Boston, the once in a generation transformative investments to address the systemic health and economic challenges in the areas of affordable housing, economic opportunity and inclusion.
Speaker 1: Behavioral health, climate and mobility. Arts and culture and early childhood and early childhood. Dr. Number 0504 Message In order authorizing the city of Boston to accept and expand the amount of $40 million in the form of a grant awarded by the United States Department of the Treasury to be administered by the City of Boston as Chief Financial

Speaker 1: So I can number 0259 An ordinance amending City of Boston Code Ordinance Chapter 15, Section ten and establishing the Boston Fair Chance Act.
Speaker 0: The Chair recognizes Council Royal Chair of the Committee on Government Operations Counsel. Royal. You have the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you. We have a hearing. Mr.. Thank you, Mr.. Chair. The Committee on Government Operations had a working session on Tuesday, April 12th, on docket 0259, an ordinance amending City of Boston Code Ordinances Chapter 15, Section ten, and establishing the Boston Fair Chance Act, which was sponsored by Councilor Julie McGee and myself.
Speaker 3: I'd like to thank my council colleagues for attending Councilor Julie me here, Councilor Rosie Lui, Jen, Councilor Candelaria, Councilor Kenzie Bok and Councilor Ed Flynn. I also like to thank Chief Solis Rivera, Chair McKenna and the Human Rights Commission and get Abby and the advocates for the purpose and councilor flying with you to remember those ongoing attacks
Speaker 3: . Now, this ordinance would amend existing language in the Boston City Code and establish a chief diversity officer who would provide oversight over the city's nondiscrimination, equal opportunity and affirmative action policies. This ordinance would also require regular updates on progress made regarding diverse hiring and promotions and require that the Chief Diversity Officer work with officers to make sure
Speaker 3: that there are fair hiring practices in place for family members of current employees. During the working session, the committee heard language suggestions on and speaking to collective bargaining agreements, which would not be subject to this ordinance at all.
Speaker 3: All collective bargaining agreements supersede this. There was further discussion regarding the duties of the Chief Diversity Officer and the language suggestions on how covered employees would receive a promotion, upgrade or reclassification. The committee is working to get information on the city's current job posting policies while we wait to receive those specific language amendments from from multiple parties
Speaker 3: that we discuss at the working session, I'm going to recommend that this remains in committee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Counsel Royal. The Chair recognizes. Counsel me here. Counsel me here. You have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you to my co-sponsor counsel for chairing such a great working session. We received a lot of great feedback from the administration and from our advocates and our colleagues here. So I'm the counsel and that we feel like we are really moving this work forward and making the ordinance stronger to best fit
Speaker 2: and serve our city workers. And a special shout out to Councilor Bark for a lot of great ideas that you shared in that space. Really do appreciate you. And one thing that I will just say is that I also want to uplift a lot of the workers that reached out to our office over the summer talking about
Speaker 2: the issues that they were experiencing. And it was because of their courage and their leadership that we are here in this moment addressing this issue. So I just want to uplift the workers who who literally came out of the shadows to talk about the discrepancies in in promotional practices here in the city of Boston.
Speaker 2: And I'm hoping that we can move this along quickly so that we can take it up for a vote of. Okay, thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, councilman here. Would anyone else like to speak on this matter? Talk of 0259 will remain in committee. Mr. Clerk, please read docket 0265, please.
Speaker 1: 0265 In order authorizing the City of Boston to accept and expand a grant funded through the coronavirus, state and local fiscal recovery fund. C o. F. R f. In the Treasury of the United States, established by Section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, a r awarded by the United States Department of the Treasury.

Speaker 1: 0517 Councils Louisiana and Florida offered the following resolution in support of fully funding ABCD Title ten funding.
Speaker 0: The Chair recognizes consultation and consultation. You have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I asked to suspend Rule 12 and add my fellow colleague, Councilor Julian me here as a third co-sponsor.
Speaker 0: Seeing and hearing. No objection. Councilman here is certainly added.
Speaker 2: Thank you so much, Mr. President. I also like to give a head tilt also to Councilor Aaron Murphy. If I could add a fourth co-sponsor, I would add her. The reason being, as Councilor Flaherty mentioned last week, ABCD lost its Title ten funding and I appreciate him for bringing that to our all of our attention, especially because
Speaker 2: all of the at large city councilors we sit as board members on ABCD. So this was an issue that really affected us and we're all really trying to figure out what we could do. As some of you may know, ABCD stands for action.
Speaker 2: The Boston Community Development was established in 1962 by the First Lady of Roxbury, Melanie Akash, who was a leader in so many ways in our city and centering the needs of those who are often forgotten of voting rights of just a number of issues that were important to Bostonians.
Speaker 2: But if you low income Bostonians regarding an absentee you worked on job training, child care, heating assistance, you name it, number of folks, constituents and family members have relied on ABCD over the years. They participated in Title ten program for nearly 50 years and they use that to really help empower folks and equip them with the tools
Speaker 2: to overcome poverty through a comprehensive and holistic approach to a range of health and racial barriers faced by households in poverty. The cultural, linguistic and economic distinctions in communities and neighborhoods create pockets of extreme poverty, exacerbated by history, by decades of neglect.
Speaker 2: And ABC works integrally in those spaces to really help empower those communities. And so with two days notice, they lost $2.8 million in grant funding, and it provides substantial resources to all the communities that I already mentioned. And so it was a very big hit to its family planning services.
Speaker 2: So members of the City Council and our representatives who all serve on the ABC board have been working with our city, with our state and federal partners here, the Boston delegation in Congress to really I talked to Secretary Beshear and hopefully reinstitute this to a $2.8 million in funding, which is so critical to family planning across our
Speaker 2: city. And so I just think my co-sponsors here for your work in supporting this resolution, also in our work together on the board of ABCD either personally or through our representatives. So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Counsel again, the chair recognizes counsel of clarity. Counsel clarity of the floor.
Speaker 4: Mr. President, and thank you to the council we stand for for our partnership on this issue. As is referenced, it's a fantastic community organization on the front lines for community health services, fuel assistance, drug training placements, food pantries, you name it, the ABCD does it.
Speaker 4: They've been their Title ten funding has been doing and has been partnering with ABC for 47 years. Not quite sure what happened. Not sure how the ball sort of got dropped, but there was an oversight here. But it's critical that we get clarification and have this decision be reversed so that the Title ten funding be restored to
Speaker 4: ABC. And then for councils, colleagues, edification. That's the plan. And I were on a call with Congressman Lynch this week who with his relationships was also getting his phone was burning up on this issue. And I know that he was going to make efforts to connect with the secretary to try to have this Title ten funding restored
Speaker 4: . So I just want to give him a shout out. For his efforts on. On behalf as well. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. Clarity. The chair recognizes. COUNSEL Here. Counsel Here you have the floor.
Speaker 2: President And thank you to Counselor Lujan and clarity for having me as a co-sponsor. ABCDE has for me has meant the entire world first. My brother went through Head Start. We got our homes heated through the fuel assistance program and I ended up getting my first job right out of college through the Family Planning Title ten initiative
Speaker 2: . And, you know. The woman that hired me is Irving Golson, God rest her soul. I gave him my first job and introduction to family planning, to community engagement, to public health. This was 30 something years ago. So for me to be fighting to ensure that these funds.
Speaker 2: Stay with ABC. Is is personal. And I think we need to do everything in our power to ensure that everything that ABC has done for so many people that we all rise up and fight to to to keep this organization alive and.
Speaker 2: And I'm really thinking about Irene right now. I'm really thinking about Irene Golson and how much she's poured into this city around taking care of our bodies out of our health. And this is for her. And we have to fight for her.
Speaker 2: So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilmember. Here the chair recognizes counsel Murphy. Counsel Murphy of the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you. I'm happy to partner with my At-Large councilors. Thank you for including me. ABCD is a $200 million nonprofit.
Speaker 5: Organization and they recently.
Speaker 2: Lost their $2.8 million family planning grant. As we already heard, this loss won't shut their doors, but they will have to make some hard decisions and have.
Speaker 5: To lay off as many.
Speaker 2: As 15 counselors. ABCD provides social services for our youngest children in Headstart, child care settings, career training, summer jobs and they also run the William Oster Guy High School that services our youth recovering from substance abuse, clothing, food, housing and utility bill, advocacy for families and all the way up to our seniors where they help thousands of
Speaker 2: Boston seniors promoting health and financial.
Speaker 5: Security and offering activities.
Speaker 2: To help combat challenges like hunger and isolation. After struggling through the pandemic these past two years, we need these social services now more than ever. I'm in support and fully funding ABCDE, so there are no interruptions in the services they provide to our Boston residents.
Speaker 2: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you, Councilor Murphy. The chair recognizes counsel and counsel.
Speaker 2: Yes. I just want to thank you, sir. I just want to add to the record that the majority of Title ten funding is goes to Matt Mattapan, Roxbury, Dorchester. And so when we're in an era of trying to make sure that these neighborhoods are getting maximum resources, we shouldn't be taking it away.
Speaker 2: Just wanted to add that for the record. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, counsel. And. Would anyone else like to speak on this matter? Just want to. I want to acknowledge and thank counsel, clarity and counsel and counsel here for their work on this important issue. Counsel Clarity received a call on a cell phone, I believe, from John Drew, who was the the executive director there, talking about how
Speaker 0: how this impact would hurt families in need. So I just want to acknowledge the the role the City Council played in advocating for families in need. ABCD plays a critical role in our city. They also supervise and administer the food access program SNAP, which I think is probably the best federal program there is.
Speaker 0: But having said that, I just want to thank my my colleagues for their important work on this on this matter. Consoles and console clarity. Console me here. And. Would anyone like to add their name? Please raise your hand, please.
Speaker 0: Council. Royal Council. Baker. Council. Bar Council. Brighton. Councilor Fernandez Anderson. Councilor. Laura. Please get the chair. Councilors Lujan seek suspension of the rules. Adoption of Docket 0517. All those in favor say our policy. The ayes have it. The docket has been adopted.
Speaker 0: We're on to personal orders. Mr. Clerk, please read docket 05180158.

Speaker 1: Behavioral health, climate and mobility. Arts and culture and early childhood and early childhood. Dr. Number 0504 Message In order authorizing the city of Boston to accept and expand the amount of $40 million in the form of a grant awarded by the United States Department of the Treasury to be administered by the City of Boston as Chief Financial
Speaker 1: Officer. Collect a Treasurer. This grant payment is made from the coronavirus State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund. C o. F. R. F. In the Treasury of the United States, established by Section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 RPA.
Speaker 1: Pursuant to the requirements of the RPA, the grant payment will fund provision of government services to the extent of the reduction in revenue of such state, territory and tribal government due to the COVID 19 Public Health Emergency relative to revenues collected in the most fiscal in the most recent full fiscal year of the state.
Speaker 1: Territorial tribal government prior to the emergency.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Mr. Court. Docket 05030504 referred to the Committee on Boston's COVID 19 recovery. Mr. Clarke, please read Docket 05050505.

Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Here. Thank you, Constitution. Any other final final question. Final thoughts at 0199 will remain in in committee. Mr. Clerk, please read docket 0187, please.
Speaker 1: 0187 Petition for a special law enacted relative to reorganization of the Boston School Committee.
Speaker 0: Thank. Thank you, Mr. Clarke. The Chair recognizes Councilor Arroyo, Chair of the Committee on Government Operations Counsel Arroyo. You have the floor.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The Committee on Government Operations held the hearing on Monday, April 11th, on docket number 0187 petition for a special law regarding an act relative to recognize h b organization of the Boston School Committee, which was sponsored by myself and counselor Julian here.
Speaker 3: I'd like to thank my council colleagues for attending Counselor Brady and Counselor Louis Jahn. Counselor Flynn, Counselor Murphy, Counsel of Clarity and Counselor Zero. This home rule petition would establish a transition from a fully appointed school committee to a fully elected school committee in the city of Boston as it's currently written.
Speaker 3: The legislation takes in takes a phased in approach to that transition, doing it over time so that not the all the elections are not at the scene at all. Those seats are not filled by election. At the same time, in the future they would be on the ballot the same time, but it phases in that approach.
Speaker 3: This hearing was an opportunity for counselors to refresh our memories of the hearing held last year and for new councilors to hear from residents and advocates and share their thoughts. At the hearing, the committee heard from parents, teachers and students at Boston Public Schools who voiced their concerns about the current state of the appointed school committee.
Speaker 3: Committee also heard from several advocates who outlined the history of Boston's decision to establish an appointed school committee highlighting the deep inequities this created. There was also a conversation about national models of school committees where they've been either hybrid or appointed and or elected.
Speaker 3: There was further discussion on the proposed phased in approach and process, as well as how this would play out with the current superintendent search and potential state receivership activity. That good initial conversation. I'm going to recommend that this docket remain in committee for a series of working sessions, the first of which will be tomorrow.
Speaker 3: And it'd be great for counselors if you do attend to come sort of with your ideas for what this could look like or what it should look like. The goal here is to have multiple working sessions, the first one to sort of collect from councilors what they would like this to look like ideally, and then to work
Speaker 3: to find a collaborative sort of way to get this done in a way that helps everybody see what they want to see out of this as much as possible. So that's tomorrow and I look forward to seeing folks there.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Counsel Rail. Would any other council like to speak on this matter that she recognizes? Councilman here. Councilman, here. You have the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you to my co-sponsor, Councilman Arroyo. I want to thank all the amazing advocates who helped us get here to this historic point, the U.S.A. Coalition, the Boston Educational Equity Coalition, former elected school committee members, students, teachers and families and so many others.
Speaker 2: You all help to ensure that this hearing was not only productive, but it also centered community expertize. As I said during the hearing. We received a mandate from the people to return to an elected school committee in the city of Boston.
Speaker 2: And there will be times in the future just to discuss specifically how that would work. But this hearing was meant for us to focus on the why. And I think our panelists and members did do that perfectly in terms of identifying what our why is.
Speaker 2: So I just want to thank Counselor Arroyo for his leadership and the entire crew that worked alongside our office, hosting a series of community conversations and native languages. It's important for people to understand what's at stake. So our office, alongside Consuelo Arroyo and the Coalition, hosted a series of community conversations and thank you to Casa Luzon for
Speaker 2: co-hosting with us, the Haitian Creole. We did one in Spanish only, and we're looking to do one in Chinese Mandarin in the near future. And the goal really is, is to help ensure that people understand what's at stake and to inform our thinking.
Speaker 2: So I just want to say thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, councilman. Here what any other council would like to speak on this matter at this time? Thank you. Do you want the one? I wanted to highlight that I am in favor of an elected school committee. And I think it's important for residents to have a voice in the future of the Boston schools.
Speaker 0: I am concerned about the timing of this. And I've mentioned this at the hearing, the working session. So I guess my question maybe to counsel Royal. One of the things I highlighted is what impact this would have on the search for the superintendent.
Speaker 0: Of the Boston Public School System. I know we've discussed this at length. But are we able to? Get a sense of what this what the search committee thinks of this this proposal at this time, if it has any effect at all on how we select who was selecting as a superintendent, I just am curious about that.
Speaker 0: So if you have any comments. Not to put you on the spot. Council Royal. But just wanted to ask you that question.
Speaker 3: Happy to answer that. I have not spoken with the search committee on the superintendent search. I recognize sort of the fact that we are in the beginning of a new mayor's term, even though this process is about 30 years in the works and is something that has happened even or started under the previous administration or maybe two
Speaker 3: administrations ago, depending on how you keep track of it. So I would just say that part of my consideration in the way that the doctor was originally written is the fact that this is phased in so that we don't immediately just take everybody who's on the school committee and say out with all of you and move forward
Speaker 3: in that way. It phases in the elected approach so that you're not looking at a fully elected school committee until 2026, and it's working in stages to get to there. So you get some of the new elected seats every municipal election up until the 2025 municipal election.
Speaker 3: Obviously, all of these things can be discussed in a working session and sort of ironed out with folks. But the idea here was how do we do this in a responsible way? You know, voters haven't voted for a school committee in 30 years.
Speaker 3: So you have to get the education that that's actually the thing on the ballot. Then you have to have all of these sort of races planned out in terms of making sure that all of the the actual infrastructural things are ready to go.
Speaker 3: And so all of those things, I think we should take into account all those things I think we should talk about in a working session to directly answer whether or not I've been told that makes any difference in the current superintendent search.
Speaker 3: I have not been told that it does, but I also have not spoken to the search committee, so I couldn't speak to that one way or the other.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Counsel Royall, and thank you for your leadership on this issue and for an informative hearing. 0187 will remain in committee. Mr. Clerk, please read docket 0259.
Speaker 1: So I can number 0259 An ordinance amending City of Boston Code Ordinance Chapter 15, Section ten and establishing the Boston Fair Chance Act.