Meeting: DenverCityCouncil_08142017
Date: 2017-08-14

---

Speaker 1: 13 eyes council bill 810 has passed. Thank you, Tracey. Thank you. All right. Moving on to the.
Speaker 8: Last.
Speaker 1: Bill of the night. Councilman Espinosa, will you please put Council Bill 822 Council Resolution 822 on the floor? I move that council resolution 822 be adopted. All right. It has been moved. And second it the one hour courtesy public hearing is open.
Speaker 1: May we have the staff report? Kim Day. Denver International Airport.
Speaker 12: Thank you, president brooks. Council members. I just want to start by thanking each and every one of you for the enormous amount of time that you have devoted to try and understand this very complex project. And I will give you, I promise, a very quick overview tonight.
Speaker 12: As you have heard me say many times, this is a transformative project. It prepares the airport for the future. It enhances safety and security, increases the capacity of the terminal, improves and replaces aging infrastructure while elevating the passenger experience.
Speaker 12: Since we opened in 1995, we have almost doubled the passenger traffic and we expect to continue to see growth into the future. Our airline partners have requested almost 30% growth in Gates. That means we need to, in parallel, increase capacity of the train that connects the terminal to the concourse, widen parts of Penn Boulevard, look at possibly
Speaker 12: accelerating the seventh runway and increase the capacity of the drop off curb and, of course, the terminal itself. And we expect our tremendous growth to continue as we expect to in 2017, above 61 million passengers. The current level of passengers, along with the projected growth, is straining our existing infrastructure.
Speaker 12: To construct and finance this project, we have chosen to enter into a public private partnership with the Great Hall Partners, an association of three firms bringing equity to this project Ferrovial Saunders and Magic Johnson Enterprises Loop Capital. This team will take full risk to bring the project in on its price and schedule.
Speaker 12: But and let me be very clear the airport still owns and maintains control of the terminal. The Great Hall Partners will bring to us their expertize in running award winning concessions programs, community outreach and training and development. And they will bring $378 million in equity and debt to the deal.
Speaker 12: They will guarantee price and schedule, and for this they will get a license to operate the terminal concessions for 30 years, retaining only 20% of the concessions revenue. The airport will invest $480 million, which is approximately the cost of the non concession construction.
Speaker 12: We will receive 80% of the revenue from the concessions program. We will reimburse the Great Hall Partners for the operations and maintenance cost over the 30 year operational period costs that we would have incurred if we were to manage the concessions.
Speaker 12: We will also repay the Great Hall Partners investment at a 4.8% return over the 30 years. The Great Hall Partners are also assuming risk of the success of the commercial program. If and only if it performs as estimated, they will generate an additional 6% return on their investment.
Speaker 12: The contract before you tonight is for 34 years. Four years of construction, 30 years of operation. It includes the $480 million investment by the airport that I mentioned. We're also maintaining a $120 million contingency for potential changes in the industry.
Speaker 12: Passenger processing. Security processing. Things we hope we never spend during the 30 years of operation we will pay predetermined amounts to reimburse the Great Hall Partners for operation and maintenance and to repay their investment at the 4.8% return.
Speaker 12: This results in a maximum contract value of $1.8 billion. Just to remind everybody, none of this is taxpayer dollars or general fund dollars. All will be paid from airport revenue. The construction project itself is $650 million. And with our $120 million contingency, we're identifying a range of 650 to $770 million.
Speaker 12: This image shows the most compelling need for this project reducing the vulnerability of our checkpoints. And while we do this, we will improve the security, effectiveness and efficiency, as well as the experience of passengers. We also need to increase the capacity of the terminal to balance the increase in gates requested by carriers and to address our aging
Speaker 12: facility with its increasing failing systems. This project will give us new elevators, new escalators, upgraded restrooms and systems, a new welcome area for international passengers, a new south entrance and meeting and greeting area for domestic passengers, right sized check in and security checkpoint areas.
Speaker 12: More curb drop off capacity on level six and will end with an elevated passenger experience. And this project prepares Denver International Airport well for our future while raising the bar as we look at our industry peers. Thank you.
Speaker 12: And the team and I are here for questions later.
Speaker 1: Great. And Ms.. Day, that's your entire presentation. That is my. Oh, wow. Okay. Here we go. All right. We are into the hearing portion and this is how we do it here at city council. This is a courtesy public hearing, meaning that this is not a required public hearing.
Speaker 1: It's a one hour courtesy that the council listens to the public on some of these more in-depth issues. And so it will be one hour will keep the clock. The pro tem here will look at the clock to make sure we're keeping it on time.
Speaker 1: And we will go through 25 speakers attempt to go through 25 speakers, which puts us over an hour. So what we're asking so that everybody gets to it. There's going to be a lot of folks, perhaps, if you're speaking on this, condensed your comments because folks that you're speaking with are going to say the same thing.
Speaker 1: So if you can condense it to about 2 minutes, we can really get everybody in here and get it through. So I'm going to call the first five speakers up. Please let me get this bench to call these speakers up.
Speaker 1: That'd be great. Ralph Bluefin. Joyce Foster. Bill BOLLING. What a hidden filter. Sorry, Hayden filter. Sorry if I mispronounce that. And why Livingston? So those are the first five. Ralph Lupine, you are first. And introduce yourself when you're ready.
Speaker 10: His counsel. My name is Ralph Bluford. I represent the Rocky Mountain Chapter National Electrical Contractors Association. I want to thank you, first of all, for allowing me to address you tonight. Our contractors perform a variety of work throughout the state of Colorado in the commercial, industrial, institutional and residential sectors.
Speaker 10: And we would like to go on record in support of this project and the positive impact it will have for the city of Denver and the surrounding areas. Job creation, sustainability of our pension, health and training programs will also come into play as a result of this project.
Speaker 10: And with respect to training, our contractors, along with our IBEW partners, offers some of the best educational programs for supervisors, electricians and apprentices that the industry can offer. Such training goes a long way to ensure the quality of the electrical installations that will be required for this project.
Speaker 10: As an association. ECA will also make every effort to support our contractors who may become involved in this critical venture. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Resolution. All right. Joyce Foster.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President, and members of the Denver City Council. My name is Joyce Foster. I'm a former city council member and a former Colorado state senator.
Speaker 12: In 1993, when I was elected and.
Speaker 3: We were here until 3 a.m. every Monday night discussing airport issues.
Speaker 12: Someone very smart told me never to allow the airport to become an authority.
Speaker 3: I'm afraid this may be the back door into one. Many nights, it would.
Speaker 12: Have been a lot easier since we were dealing with pretty hostile concession contracts. People elected me and you.
Speaker 3: To represent them.
Speaker 9: And make decisions, not a private company.
Speaker 12: By supporting this contract tonight, the citizens.
Speaker 3: Of Colorado will no longer.
Speaker 9: Have anybody to complain to.
Speaker 12: I know that sounds tempting, but your hands will be.
Speaker 3: Tied along with the next.
Speaker 12: Three decades of elected city council.
Speaker 9: Members.
Speaker 3: One airport vote I remember vividly was that of our baggage contractor VA.
Speaker 12: He wanted us to buy a $30 million maintenance contract. The lobby was strong and they had their seven votes. I merely asked a question while sitting.
Speaker 3: Where you are.
Speaker 12: Why should we buy that.
Speaker 3: When you haven't even.
Speaker 12: Made the system operational yet? Well, I was able to convince a couple more.
Speaker 3: Colleagues and we didn't buy it, thank goodness. And United Airlines.
Speaker 12: Had to take the entire system over. You know, the one that never worked.
Speaker 3: The airlines are the largest concessions.
Speaker 12: They must have input. And because the airports had to do everything differently after 911 when our airport was already operational. We all needed the flexibility to make changes.
Speaker 3: Maybe there's language.
Speaker 12: To make minor changes, but you won't be in the driver's seat. I promise. Future council members will assume the contractor is correct.
Speaker 3: And do as they say.
Speaker 12: No one will have the history. I've only contacted a couple of you and yes, I know I'm a Joyce come lately, but I'm here now to hopefully change.
Speaker 3: A few minds.
Speaker 9: In 34 years, I'll be.
Speaker 12: 107 years old. If I'm still celebrating birthdays.
Speaker 3: My grandchildren will range in age from.
Speaker 12: 46 to 51. This is the most.
Speaker 3: Important asset we in Denver.
Speaker 9: Have.
Speaker 12: I strongly.
Speaker 3: Urge you to.
Speaker 9: Reconsider your.
Speaker 12: Yes vote. Support Councilman Espinosa's suggestion.
Speaker 3: Pay the $9 million.
Speaker 12: And then my suggestion run like hell. Thank you.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you. Honorable Joyce Foster. All right, Bill Bolen.
Speaker 8: Good evening. I'm Bill Bolen. I'm with Paradise Leggo. There we are, an airport concessionaire. While new to Dan.
Speaker 7: We've been around for three years. We're in the Southwest project, and we have brought 120.
Speaker 8: Jobs to the airport. And we just we're getting ready to open up in East and bring another 50 jobs to the airport. And we look forward to this great hall project to bring more jobs.
Speaker 7: Here done and why we've been successful with the current RFP process in the.
Speaker 8: Airport. We also look forward to this new public private partnership and.
Speaker 7: Continued success at it. Dan Airport, thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Bolen. What what heightened filter. Oh. Not here. Okay. Why Livingston?
Speaker 3: Good evening, everybody. Thank you for the opportunity to speak today as a member of the business and the traveling community. I'm honored to be a current member of the airport community.
Speaker 1: Ms.. Livingston, can you introduce yourself?
Speaker 3: I'm y Livingston and I'm an airport concessionaire and also the owner of Whitestone World Teas. I have been a certified TB firm for over four years and have seen the growth and improvement of our airport over that time.
Speaker 3: I support the continued improvement of the sixth busiest airport in the country by supporting the Great Hall Project. With the proposed changes, my support really centers on four main areas security. The new plan reduces our overall vulnerability very dramatically and at a time that's needed for the times that we live in.
Speaker 3: Secondly, the Esthetics Airport is aging, and we need to be proactive and thoughtful in our approach to transform the space from good to great and to be timely with this transformation. Opportunities from multiple firms is my third main goal operations for women and minority firms, for all of those that have an opportunity to participate in the concessions
Speaker 3: program. And then finally, the size of this project produces tremendous growth opportunities in our area for local businesses and additional employment opportunities. This project, in my opinion, is the right undertaking at the right time, and I don't want to see our airport fall behind in terms of its capabilities and capacity.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Ms.. Livingston. All right. I'm going to call the next five folks up here. Nick Hostetler, Hush Bleu, Herman Malone, Steven Jagannath and Gavin Malloy. And one more. Michael Kiley. Nick. Just Stetler, your first.
Speaker 8: Hello and thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. Thank you also. I really appreciated earlier when you guys took the stance against racism and discrimination at the very beginning of tonight's session. My name is Nick Hostetler. I'm a union organizer with Asthma Council 76.
Speaker 8: A group of city workers and myself came tonight to speak about working conditions at the airport and human services. But considering the topic, we will come back next month for that. So tonight I I'd like to stand in solidarity with Unite here local 23 workers out at DIA in opposing the Great Hall Project.
Speaker 8: We know that without a retention agreement, concession workers will lose their jobs. And what's more, city jobs in the Great Hall could be it could be jeopardized. And those are some of the members that we represent that could be jeopardized as a result of contract language that gives Ferrovial a great deal of control over the Great Hall
Speaker 8: . If FERROVIAL has control over the Great Hall, they could potentially use that control to outsource city jobs in the area. Ask me Local 158 is concerned about appropriation of city funds for capital projects which impact these city jobs.
Speaker 8: And this is city money being spent on a questionable contract that displaces workers and constricts a budget that could otherwise be used to improve the lives and workplaces of city workers. So we're very concerned about that. We therefore ask the city council to do they consider the importance of these employee jobs and also in the future for
Speaker 8: Ask Me, Local one, five, eight and other unions to be more actively included in the next contracting contracting discussion. So thank you very much for your time tonight.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Stettler. All right. Herman Miller.
Speaker 8: Good evening. Council President Elvis Brooks and distinguished men and members of City Council. My name is Herman Malone and I reside at 8136 East Fairmont Drive. And here in the city. 80230. Oh. It's a pleasure to appear before you this evening to briefly discuss the most important part that is before you tonight.
Speaker 8: As one of the founding members of the Colorado Black Chamber of Commerce, where I served as its chairman for a number of years, in addition to the Rocky Mountain Minerals Supply Development, the Development Council. And in addition to being a business owner for the past 40 years, I have witnessed some significant milestones, including the hard fought campaign
Speaker 8: and passage of the land acquisition vote, which led to the development of the international airport. Proudly. Our community plays a significant role in the mayor opinions vision for a great city and airport and the way of administration. We witness the construction and completion of the day and the establishment of a minority and women owned business participation goals
Speaker 8: . These significant goals essentially put them on the map for a progressive city. Ready to include all of the citizens and an equitable opportunity to participate economically. Today we are faced with another milestone the renovation and expansion of our terminal dubbed the Great Hall.
Speaker 8: As a proponent of this project. And the approach that the management has taken to build it. I think there are synergies at play between the public and private sectors and I also think is a definitely a unique concept and trust that the team will preserve the integrity.
Speaker 1: Of the Minority Business Enterprise.
Speaker 8: Program. In a manner which allows the DBI community to be fully integrated and the public private partnership terminal development. Including establishing goals that are clearly defined and therefore be accountable for any shortages in achieving those goals. And also the local minority business development center and the local community to be included in the utilization of achieving those established
Speaker 8: goals. With that being said, thank you very much for the opportunity.
Speaker 1: And thank you, Mr. Malone. Steve. Check it.
Speaker 10: The reason why. Mike up. Here you go. Good evening. My name is Steve Jake with the vice president for United Airlines at DIA. Thank you all very much for the opportunity to speak with you today. As our President, Scott Kirby, stated here last month, the DIA and United Partnership is one of our strongest airport airline relationships anywhere
Speaker 10: in the world. We have a very long track record of working together. We appreciate the collaboration and engagement between the city teams and United. Over the last few weeks to resolve issues arising from the current Great Hall redesign.
Speaker 10: Significant progress has been made, but we remain concerned with the proposed level six design. We respectfully request that the DEA and United teams continue to work through these significant and outstanding operational concerns. We simply cannot afford months or years of operational disruption for additional construction or projects if the proposed level six design fails.
Speaker 10: While we do not diminish the value of the simulation work that was undertaken, it is virtually impossible to predict real world customer and operational behaviors with complete certainty. So it's best to plan for contingencies. Day's last round of simulations indicate that the current level six design does work.
Speaker 10: However, as we've previously articulated, computer simulations focus on a future single standard day that can rarely capture changes over an extended period of time, let alone anticipate the numerous variables in the highly complex environment of an airport. The simulations for the checkpoint area requires a 28 of the 34 plan lanes and the current design must be open
Speaker 10: and fully staffed or else a security queue begins to overflow into our lobbies. Based on our extensive experience of delivering new check point facilities across the country, we do not believe this TSA scenario is realistic on a consistent basis.
Speaker 10: Our lobby operations as well require additional study to ensure they have customer friendly flows with minimal congestion and acceptable lane wait times. We ask that any cost associated with day two construction to alleviate congestion or additional address additional problems created by the level six design be borne by DIA and their design partners.
Speaker 10: Airlines should not have to bear the burden of additional costs to fix the operational deficiencies in for Louisville's Great Hall design. As these issues have been brought to the day's attention in the pre-development stage. Finally, the proposed P3 deal with FERROVIAL requires the airport to maximize the amount of concessions revenue available to Ferrovial.
Speaker 10: To accomplish this, the airport needs to maximize the amount of available space awarded to Ferrovial and the concessions program.
Speaker 1: Mr. Jacquie. Yes. You've run out of time.
Speaker 10: Very good. Well, thank you very much. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Yeah, thank you. Gavin Malloy.
Speaker 8: Good evening. I'm Gavin Malloy from United Airlines. Available for questions.
Speaker 1: Great.
Speaker 8: Michael Kiley. Hello.
Speaker 0: Good evening. My name is Michael Kealy.
Speaker 7: I live in Council District one and I'm also a candidate for the Colorado State Legislature, House District four.
Speaker 0: I'm here tonight representing the Committee for City and Airport Fairness.
Speaker 7: Veronica Barela is here tonight or was and she's the chair of our committee. So we support the renovations, the need for renovations for the Great Hall.
Speaker 8: We understand the benefits from sales.
Speaker 7: Tax and for safety, but we have concerns and we're asking that the deal be amended. The concerns are as follows We believe the contract is far too long.
Speaker 0: How can anyone possibly.
Speaker 7: Know what is needed from the airport 30 years from now? Ferrovial hasn't been needed for the first 20 years, and we're not understanding why they're needed now. The city can finance these renovations at much lower cost than the current terms in the deal.
Speaker 7: All the profits will leave our state. Rather than being reinvested in Colorado. And why are we guaranteeing for over a profit? We should be guaranteeing a living wage for the citizens of Denver and affordable housing and affordable health care.
Speaker 7: We should never guarantee a profit to a corporation in a commercial venture. We need 100% assurance that the jobs created by this project will pay a living wage. A prevailing wage. Excuse me. Paying less than a living wage means those workers will require city or state services to live in the metro area.
Speaker 7: Paying anything less than a living wage amounts to corporate welfare. We need the.
Speaker 0: Project to have high goals.
Speaker 7: For engaging and bringing equity to the minority business opportunities. And we ask that local concessions be prioritized to keep the character of DIA. In summary, we strongly recommend that the City Council vote for an.
Speaker 8: Extension and make essential adjustments to get this deal done right. Take bold action. Maximize the benefit of the great hall renovations for the people of Denver. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Kiley. All right. We're going to call the next five up here. Monica Stringer, Kevin Abels, Tiffany Patrick, Mark Thompson. And Nick Sullivan. Monica Stringer. You are first. Stringer. I'm sorry.
Speaker 11: But.
Speaker 3: Good evening. Good evening. My name is Monica Stanger. I'm the founder, president and CEO of Server Tech Electrical Contractors. I am here to tell you that I have earned the opportunity to have my own business in this city because of Denver International Airport.
Speaker 3: This airport has been a huge economic engine for our city. I started my company 17 years ago within dense walls. 17 years later, I employ 20 full time individuals and we had gross revenues in 2016 of $9 million.
Speaker 3: This continued growth has allowed us to train our workforce beyond industry standard. This would not have been possible if the opportunities were not available to us. This project is a great, thriving opportunity for this small business community. If they are granted great participation in it, thank you for your consideration.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Ms.. Dinger. Kevin Abels.
Speaker 8: Good evening. I'm Kevin Abels. I live in Harvard Park neighborhood. Denver City Council District two. I'm here speaking as the Denver chapter president of Unite Here, Local 23. We represent 2000 hospitality workers in metro Denver, including 500 at the airport.
Speaker 8: Our union supports responsible airport development. However, we do not support this contract. Our members are the dishwashers, the cooks, the servers, and the bartenders that make our airport great. And we want to make the airport even better. That's why for over a year, we have talked to you, the members of council, about how we want to be
Speaker 8: a part of the redevelopment of the terminal. And we'd like to thank you all for partnering with us. You have given us a seat at the stakeholder table, and we appreciate you for that. We look forward to partnering with you and all the officials at the airport on future projects as well.
Speaker 8: On the other hand, Ferrovial has refused to partner with airport concessions workers. Our union reached out many times to engage Ferrovial in a discussion about our members most important concerns. Number one, after being laid off, will displaced workers receive the first right of refusal?
Speaker 8: Once equivalent concessions, jobs become available. And number two will Ferrovial and its concessions. Subcontractors respect the decision of a majority of workers on whether or not to unionize. Sadly, over the past year, Ferrovial did not seriously engage with us, let alone come to an agreement on these concerns.
Speaker 8: Ferrovial is lack of good faith means that we cannot support this contract. This company has shown a disregard for workers who have been at the airport long before they ever will be. Ferrovial has not done what it takes to build worker support for this proposal.
Speaker 8: Airport concessions workers are very concerned that if this contract is approved for Rovio, we'll have a 34 year pass to ignore us instead of partnering with us. Regardless of what happens with the contract tonight, please see concessions workers as partners of the city and the airport.
Speaker 8: Our cooks and servers will continue to take a seat at the table. We remain hopeful that we can make the airport even better by all working together on the next projects and contracts. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Abels. Tiffany Patrick.
Speaker 3: My name is Tiffany Patrick and I represent U.S. Engineering, a local union mechanical contractor. And should the contract pass tonight, I will be managing the mechanical and plumbing portions of this project in partnership with the Great Hall Partners Design, Build, Joint Venture and our minority and women owned mechanical and plumbing contractor teammates.
Speaker 3: I just wanted to take this opportunity to thank the Council for their support of this project.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Patrick. Mark Thompson.
Speaker 10: Council President Brooks. Did I do that?
Speaker 1: You might have, but that's okay.
Speaker 10: I do that. Members of council. I considered opening my comments tonight with a song selection from the musical Annie.
Speaker 4: However, the kids stole my thunder.
Speaker 10: I do want to take the first bit of my comment and thank you for providing that opportunity to the youth of our community. I realize you've been seeing a lot of the Carpenters recently. I'd like to thank you on behalf of the Carpenters and our community for the time and the opportunities to meet with you individually and
Speaker 10: again tonight. I'm here tonight on behalf of our members to talk about the Great Hall Project. I'm not here to speak in favor or against. This is another project that means opportunity. We do have a real concern about our city pumping money into an industry that is polluted with labor brokers, wage theft, payroll fraud and cash pay
Speaker 10: . Cash pay meaning? No taxes, no workers comp, no unemployment. We are an organization of carpenters, and we've been building this city since 1884. We just want to make sure that we build it responsibly. Unfortunately, we have had some fraud issues, some payroll fraud issues on recent projects at the Denver airport.
Speaker 10: We have discussed with most of you about apprenticeship opportunities, about career training that we believe would ensure that we are building the Denver airport the right way. We're asking for your help in promoting the creation of good jobs in Denver, in the Denver construction industry, as well as developing a well-trained local workforce.
Speaker 10: Again, we're looking for opportunities for the citizens of our community and in apprenticeship training, the youth of our community. I'd like to thank you for your leadership. I'd like to thank you for your support.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Thompson. Nick O'Sullivan.
Speaker 8: Good evening. My name's Nick O'Sullivan. I live in Sloan's Lake. I'm the co-founder of Brothers Barbecue and Nugget Ice Cream. My brother and I opened our business 20 years ago here in Denver, a little place, about 900 square feet.
Speaker 8: We didn't have any employees. And now we've expanded to seven locations and we have over 100 employees. We've also been selected now to open up a brother's barbecue at the airport and terminal at the Den Lounge. I just like to say that, you know, the exposure and the sales volume will take our companies to the next level
Speaker 8: . And we're really thankful that Denver is bringing local businesses like ours with them as this amazing city continues to grow and thrive. Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to say thank you to the City Council for recognizing us as a Denver original.
Speaker 8: And we look forward to serving you in February at DIA. We support the Great Hall expansion as it will give other local businesses like ours a chance to show the world what great companies Denver has. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Mr. O'Sullivan. All right. I'm going to call the next five individuals up. Rob Prince, Michelle Verizon's, David de Villa and Howard Arnold. One more. Zach McNeill. Rob Prince. You're up first, sir.
Speaker 15: Members of the council. I hadn't really come here to speak, to be frank, but I'm so concerned about this issue that I decided that I would. I've done a little research, some I I'm against this proposal. And I just want to state it clearly and just to just give you a few explanations why.
Speaker 15: First, I've lived in Denver for 42 years. 3187, West 40th Avenue. My wife is a nurse at the Colorado State Veterans Home. I have two daughters, one who's a therapist at Kaiser, and the second who's taught for 19 years in the Mapleton School District.
Speaker 15: I was a senior lecturer of international studies at the University of Denver's Corbell School, and I retired from there two years ago, or at least I thought I retired and then all these things are coming up. What are my concerns about this issue?
Speaker 15: Several. First, the length of the contract. This ought to have been mentioned, a 15,000 page contract, I've heard. And also the size, the financial size of what we're dealing with, 1.8, 1.8 billion. So there's that. I'm also concerned, just given the research that I've done about one of the companies that's involved and its record, and that is
Speaker 15: ferrovial that several people have mentioned. So some have mentioned it's labor issues, but there are other things just that you ought to consider. First of all, it's been cited specifically in a recent Amnesty International report for for a facility related to off the coast of Australia, in which it's one of the main players, ferrovial, that is, get
Speaker 15: houses of people trying to become refugees there. And the human rights abuses there have been well documented. So that's something you should consider. Secondly, recent news suggests that they're having problems in in Great Britain. When Great Britain privatized their they're their airports Ferrovial is part of a larger consortium became ran seven of those airports recently I believe
Speaker 15: they were asked to to end their contracts with three or four of them. And you might want to look into that. And finally, there have been they had major problems, labor problems in Canada with with contracts, with airport contracts.
Speaker 15: So I really think that that that needs to be that needs to be looked at, really. The person who spoke for for me the clearest was former city councilwoman Joyce Prince. Okay. And her comment about how this place is going to be run and who's going to be running it.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you. All right. Michelle Burstyn's. Did I get that right? That's right. Okay.
Speaker 3: Hi, I'm Michelle Burns. I work and live in northwest Denver and I'm currently living on 20 something CLAYTON In your district. Mr. Brooks, I am here representing the Millennial World Traveler. I travel several times a month. I was just in Europe a month ago, took a trip last weekend, and I'm flying to Vegas on Tuesday, so I
Speaker 3: kind of fit that category. I fly by the seat of my pants and I am really proud to call DIA my my airport. I do think that the flow is a little inefficient and it doesn't feel that is it is as safe to me as it should be seeing other airports globally and seeing how they have the
Speaker 3: flow set up, you know, really brings that to my forefront of why I am in favor of this project. I just don't understand that we're such an international airport and we have so many people at risk. Safety wise.
Speaker 3: I do think that it is time to improve as it was mentioned. We've basically nearly doubled our foot traffic since we've opened. And now is the time. As a millennial, we also love our options and we really love local retail.
Speaker 3: We're excited about some of those new places that could potentially be coming in. More convenience, better safety and efficiency in general speaks to.
Speaker 9: Kind.
Speaker 3: Of the millennials. With this project, it will bring a lot of jobs for people who need it. Obviously grow the economy and we do think that that's very important. Also, another thing I'd like to mention is taking the airline from Union Station to ticketing through TSA.
Speaker 3: It just feels like it's, again, inefficient and and feels like it could be better streamlined. I just ask that you consider this plan. It will make us feel more safe, streamline travel, save us all time, and of course, bring jobs and local business into DIA.
Speaker 3: Just ask that you look at the bigger picture and vote in favor for this project.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Ms.. Persons. David de Villa.
Speaker 7: Good evening. Thank you. Council President. Members of council. My name is Dave de Villa. I'm a fifth generation Denver native. I live in Denver currently. I work for a board of directors who install mechanical and plumbing systems in commercial projects, much like the one envisioned here at DIA.
Speaker 7: We represent about 7000 workers in this state. I'm told as of today, that number may be closer to 7500. I have 150 members in the state who build everything from homes to hospitals. Airports in particular at our vendors and vendor members were about 180.
Speaker 7: We are have been around since 1886. No, I'm not the founding executive director. This project contemplates a $650 million price tag. What that means is it will create 11,800 construction jobs. Those are local jobs will be created here in part with Ferrovial.
Speaker 7: We've met with them a number of times. Contrary to some of the comments earlier offered by another speaker, they have been open and receptive and been good to work with. But I'm also here to talk about our friends.
Speaker 7: Saunders Construction. There are a local contractor who hires local subcontractors, like the ones that employ me. We thank Saunders for their continued partnership. They reinvest in this community and they're great partners to work for. Should you choose to approve this contract, not only will it generate 11,800 new jobs, it will also return two and a half times
Speaker 7: or $1.2 billion to the economy, although we don't know Ferrovial as well as we do. Saunders Everything from our meetings have been positive. We look forward to this project. We ask you, please vote in favor of this bill and this project.
Speaker 7: And as a former city council person, I know the role that you are in. I will tell you that P3 projects not only are the wave of the future, but the world is watching on how we handle this project and additional investments are made possible by how this is handled.
Speaker 7: Sure, there are some things that in hindsight may have been dealt with a little bit differently. But what I would say to you is I think Ferrovial and Saunders have helped us work through those. So again, I would ask your support in favor of this project and this bill.
Speaker 7: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Honorable Dave de Villa. Thank you. Howard on.
Speaker 6: Mr. President. Honorable City Council. My name is Howard Arnold. I'm currently the business manager for the Rocky Mountain Bike Trails District Council. I'm also the past president of the Colorado Building and Construction Trades Council. We also belong to the MMP Alliance that stands for Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing Alliance.
Speaker 6: These are the union contractors and respective labor unions for the mechanical, electrical and piping trades. They typically make up about 60% of the cost of a project. This project will put hundreds of construction workers to work. These are jobs that come with a five year apprenticeship and continued training for the rest of their career.
Speaker 6: They'll provide health care for the workers and their entire families. They'll pay prevailing wages and they'll pay pensions so that at the end of their working career, they can retire in dignity. These are large these large public works projects that hire union contractors are transformational for people.
Speaker 6: Often times, for generations, it lifts people into the middle class. 30% of our membership are minorities and women, and we're working with a local community organizer, Servicios de la Raza, to recruit more folks who've been disadvantaged into our trades.
Speaker 6: This project will put bread on the table for hundreds upon hundreds of craft workers and their families. I appreciate Ferrovial has experience in building these types of large projects, and I applaud them for selecting an excellent Colorado local general contractor.
Speaker 6: Saunders Company. Saunders Company will hire Colorado subcontractors and will employ local Colorado building construction trades men and women. Please vote to make this project reality. Working people need it. The city of Denver needs it. And the safety and welfare of millions of people.
Speaker 6: The cross through our city needed as well. Please note. Yes, thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Honor. All right, Zach McNeal.
Speaker 4: Mr. President, members of the council, I want to thank you for the opportunity to come before you and speak. I am totally for this project at Denver International Airport as a small business concessionaire for the past ten years.
Speaker 4: I've seen a lot of growth in our airport years ago. A few years ago we were rated number one in the US. I want to get us back there and do everything that I can. I am all about giving back to the community and when I started at DIA, that's one of the things that I did heavily
Speaker 4: was invest in our youth and put together a program. So you want to own your own small business. I'd like to think we were fairly successful with that, but now we have the opportunity to put that on steroids, not just for the youth in our city, but also for other small businesses that we have the ability to
Speaker 4: mentor. So. The commitment that I will like to make to you tonight is that we will work tirelessly within optimal concessions to make it work for youth, to mentor them, to give them jobs, to grow and nurture other small businesses so we can share the success.
Speaker 4: But we have to seize this opportunity. There was only one other opportunity where we had the ability to do concessions, do outreach, touch small businesses in a major way. That was 22 years ago when the airport opened. This is the only other time that it is occurring.
Speaker 4: We have to take advantage of this opportunity. So I'll make the commitment to you that we will work tirelessly to get that done and to help make then become number one again. And I would ask you guys to vote in favor of this project and not let this great city down.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. MacNeil. All right. I'm going to call the next five up. Thank you all. Rob McDaniel. Andrew Rusty Gonzalez. Trinidad Rodriguez. Walter Eisenberg. And Tom Allen and we are complete. Oh, you guys did a great job.
Speaker 1: Okay, Robbie, now you are first.
Speaker 7: Thank you for the opportunity to speak here this evening. Council President. Members of council. My name is Rob McDaniel. I reside at 22nd and Huston Hudson.
Speaker 10: In Park Hill and our offices are headquartered at 25th and Washington.
Speaker 7: And council president Brooks is district. I'm here tonight to speak in support.
Speaker 10: Of the Great Hall Project and everything that it represents for our community. In 1994, I was an intern in Governor.
Speaker 8: Roemer's International.
Speaker 7: Trade Office, and one of my many jobs was to do the check at the Christmas.
Speaker 10: Party at the yet to be opened Denver International Airport. During that great event.
Speaker 7: I was able to actually enjoy a little bit of the speeches and the festivities.
Speaker 10: And Tom Clarke spoke very eloquently about what DIA meant.
Speaker 7: Despite all the problems we had with the baggage claim system and everything else. And he said that Denver was going to.
Speaker 10: Be Denver International Airport was going to be not.
Speaker 7: Only a gateway to the world for Colorado, but a gateway for the 21st century. I think the Ferrovial project and what's going on with the Great Hall today absolutely carries that vision forward. US as a company, I went on my own as a small subcontractor to a company here in in Denver working at the airport in 2009
Speaker 7: as a one person shop. I'm happy and proud that we've now grown to 12 full time staff in.
Speaker 10: The Five Points neighborhood. We have projects.
Speaker 7: Now in Seattle, Tacoma at the Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, San Francisco International Airport, and we just opened an office in Cincinnati, Ohio, to represent our activities in the Eastern Seaboard. All of this activity, all of these jobs, the.
Speaker 10: Revenue we've been able to.
Speaker 7: Create has been.
Speaker 10: Facilitated and helped by the work we've earned and delivered at DIA. So we thank the airport and we look forward.
Speaker 7: For what this project means going forward for our company. I think the numbers speak for themselves, but sharing one small story from our company, Ferrovial, like all big companies, has many, many subcontractors.
Speaker 10: And we've been working.
Speaker 7: Diligently with one of their subcontractors to form a joint venture alliance here.
Speaker 10: In Denver and also to help represent.
Speaker 7: Our company and our services and solutions in Spain. So they have not it's a 500 person company headquartered in Spain. They've never had operations in Colorado or anywhere in the United States. And this project is helping them enter this market, so much so that they're actually considering.
Speaker 11: Putting.
Speaker 10: Their offices, their US.
Speaker 7: Headquarters here in Denver. And for us, that is a huge opportunity to grow our business in.
Speaker 11: Europe.
Speaker 10: And hopefully in other parts of the world.
Speaker 7: As this as we continue to become a global passageway. I urge you to support this this bill and support this project for the local economy and for small companies like mine. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Mr. McDaniel. Andrew Rusty Gonzalez.
Speaker 8: Good evening. Rusty Gonzalez 35 years ago, I made a conscious decision to leave the Big Apple, Cheyenne, Wyoming, and move to Denver, Colorado, to start an electrical contracting business. In that 30 in that 35 years, I've learned a lot about construction in Denver.
Speaker 8: I've owned my current company for 21 years. I've owned electrical contracting businesses for 30 years. And that 30 years as a small business owner, I've written over 1000 W-2s as a small business owner. After starting my business, I learned the importance of getting involved in fair wages.
Speaker 8: I've been a union contractor my entire time. I recently sat on the Auditors Prevailing Wage Ordinance Committee and was successful on that. That's the last time you all saw me. I also became active in the organized labor for the electoral industry.
Speaker 8: I'm on the board, vice president and board on the board of directors of the National Electrical Contract Association, who works in collaboration with the IBEW to create over 2000 construction jobs. Additionally, I'm the past president of the Hispanic Contractors of Colorado, formerly known as the Hispanic contractor Colorado.
Speaker 8: Now Colorado's diversity leader, which we represent over 100 small business construction owners, which also has hundreds of jobs. So. I guess what I'd like to say is one thing I've learned since I've left the Big Apple was the importance of being a small business owner in Denver and working with the city on these large scale projects.
Speaker 8: I've been very, very blessed, very, very fortunate, as I said, to have been part of working to help create in excess of 2000, 2000 jobs. And I see this project as another opportunity for many of the small and bedbug species, the ease to benefit from this project, not only short term, but long term.
Speaker 8: So I encourage your support on this. As always, it's great to see you. Peace out.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Gonzales. Best joke of the night, Big Apple. All right. Trinidad Rodriguez.
Speaker 8: Good evening, Mr. President.
Speaker 10: Members of Council, thanks for the opportunity to address you this evening. My name is Trini Rodriguez. I'm an investment banker. I live and work in Denver. Just a few short minutes away from where I was.
Speaker 7: Born and raised and.
Speaker 10: Villa Park neighborhood. And I'm here in that capacity as a resident and employee who works in the city.
Speaker 7: And county of Denver and uses Denver International Airport.
Speaker 10: Regularly, both with my family and for business travel. I was thinking back.
Speaker 7: To when Denver International Airport opened and remembering sort of my first experience with it.
Speaker 10: And that was when I flew out.
Speaker 7: To begin a semester.
Speaker 10: Of college and flew out of Stapleton and then flew back.
Speaker 7: In the Denver International Airport. And I remember.
Speaker 10: The, you know, significance of seeing the great new facility. But so much has changed since then. This is a key opportunity to invest in Denver International Airport as an asset to create capacity for many years to come, to accommodate.
Speaker 7: The very rapidly growing.
Speaker 10: On the origin and destination traffic that flows through Denver as the city itself grows. As you considered with the bond many this investment has a very similar sort of business case and rationale to be able to accommodate continued significant growth in our region.
Speaker 10: I I'm also urging support.
Speaker 7: You know, public private.
Speaker 10: Partnerships are a unique tool and they are not the right tool for every job. But based on how the transaction and the terms of the deal are structured, it can be very beneficial to all the parties involved. And I believe the team.
Speaker 7: At Denver International Airport and the city and county of Denver.
Speaker 10: Administration and management have have worked to that.
Speaker 7: Goal. I understand that.
Speaker 10: The for.
Speaker 7: As one particular measure, as an investment banker, we look at credit rating.
Speaker 10: Agencies and credit ratings. And I understand that the city team has very much briefed the three nationally recognized credit rating agencies that rate the.
Speaker 7: Bonds on Denver.
Speaker 10: International Airport and that by virtue of the transaction structure in terms and the way those terms fit within the flow of funds of how Denver International Den's obligations are met, that this only works to enhance the credit.
Speaker 7: Worthiness of the airport's capital financing program and enhances the ability to achieve the all important credit rating metrics that determine the rating on.
Speaker 10: Bonds such as downs. So with that, I just wanted to lend my perspective. Thank you again for the opportunity and I urge support of this spell.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Walter Eisenberg.
Speaker 8: Thank you so much. Thank you, counsel. My name's Walter Eisenberg. I'm president and CEO of Sage Hospitality. I'm a member of the Visit Denver Board of Directors. Member of Colorado Hotel Lodging Association, which is supported this. And a trustee of Metro State University that has entered into an agreement with the Great Hall Project for job training in
Speaker 8: advance of this evening. I live in Denver, have been here 33 years 1984 moved here to start sage hospitality. Today we employ about 6000 people, a thousand of who work in the city and county of Denver. 22 years ago, we opened DIA and I would tell you that my view of the last 33 years, by far and
Speaker 8: away the most important economic impact investment that we have ever made. And I cannot imagine what our city would or would not look like, perhaps if we still had Stapleton. The airport is now 22 years old. Four years from now, when this project is completed, I think that we would all agree that it is time to reinvest
Speaker 8: and update the facilities as have been described. I think that there's been some discussion about the term of this agreement and we have firsthand experience with P threes at Denver Union Station. I think we would all agree that it is a wildly successful P three.
Speaker 8: We have a 99 year agreement with an option to extend for 50 years. So this seems like a pretty short deal to me. So I would encourage you to think about this opportunity to take private dollars in partnership with DIA to reinvent and improve our airport and bring it up to current standards.
Speaker 8: I would encourage you to be bold and vote yes in favor of the project. Thank you very much.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Isenberg. And last but not least, Tom Allen.
Speaker 7: Thank you, counsel. My name is Tom Allen. I am the president of Intermountain Electric. We are a union electrical contractor here in Denver.
Speaker 8: We started in 1946.
Speaker 7: And we've been out at the airport since it opened. In the last nearly two years, we've been providing pricing to the Great Hall partner team to.
Speaker 10: Help them through this initial pricing process. And should council.
Speaker 1: Support this.
Speaker 7: Project. And I hope you will.
Speaker 10: It will hopefully.
Speaker 7: Mean a lot of jobs for my company and for many companies.
Speaker 1: For the years to come. Thank you very much. All right. Thank you, Mr. Allen. Um, I just got to say, 25 speakers, 50 minutes is very impressive, so thank everyone for keeping your comments concise and to the point.
Speaker 1: Yeah, very effective. All right. We're going into questions, questions by members of Council Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. If I. And Commerce Day up to the microphone, please. It is.
Speaker 12: Council.
Speaker 10: You said that the private partners assume full risk. And I'm wondering if you can explain what you mean by that.
Speaker 12: They assume full risk for price and schedule. So they are giving us a firm fixed fee of $650 million to build the project. And they have a schedule that has us opening the fall of 2021 for completion.
Speaker 10: Okay. So and I think at least one of my colleagues will talk a little bit more about this. But the one area that seems to be left open is change directives that that Dan might require of the project.
Speaker 10: And I understand we have $120 million set aside to cover that. Is that correct?
Speaker 12: That would be for changes that happened in the industry. Ferrovial takes responsibility for opening the ceiling and finding a surprise that's on them. But if something changes in the next couple of years about how you use your phone to process, and that means we need to redesign part of the Great Hall.
Speaker 12: We would pay for that out of our contingency, right.
Speaker 10: Or any other design changes we want to make along the way. Okay, Mr. De Vere, I have that right. Would you mind? And Mr. President, I've got about 90 questions, but I'll ask three and then give it up, if that's okay.
Speaker 1: Yes, sir.
Speaker 10: Go ahead. Q Thank you. 11,800 jobs. That sounds like an awful lot of jobs from one speaker talked about 500 carpenters jobs, I think. Tell me more how you get to that number.
Speaker 1: Go ahead.
Speaker 11: Thank you.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Councilman. We commission as the electrical contractors, the sheet metal contractors and the mechanical plumbing contractors. Every other year, an economic impact study that I can send you a copy of with Colorado State University. They're the only accredited construction management program in the state.
Speaker 7: They do a research project for us. And this January they conclude or we release the last installment of that for every million dollars you spend in construction. It creates 18 direct jobs. What I didn't quote you was the indirect figure, which brings that closer to like 28.
Speaker 7: So if you just take 18 times 650 million, you get to 11,800.
Speaker 10: And are we talking a job year, a construction jobs?
Speaker 7: So for every six, every million dollars you spend, you create 18 construction jobs. Direct construction jobs. Indirect things would be items like suppliers, downstream partners, other other supporters that feed the industry. I can get you the exact study with all the metrics that are used in order to calculate that, if that would be helpful.
Speaker 10: Well, I'm not going to beat this. And I'm just like I said, I'm trying to understand what a job means. You know, as far as is this the length of the project? Is this someone who may show up during the project for a limited period of time?
Speaker 7: So there are sometimes in projects like this, there could be upwards of 60 contracts with construction firms. Mechanical and plumbing would be either one, or in this case, it is one. But everybody who hits that job site, the way that the economic multipliers work is it calculates a job is created, eight of them for every million dollars
Speaker 7: you spend. I'll make sure that we get your copy and everybody else on council copy of that as well.
Speaker 10: That's okay. I'm guessing after tonight I'm not going to want to read a lot about this project. Thank you, Mr. President. I'll pass the microphone.
Speaker 11: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Cashman. Councilman Ortega.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. I've had lots of questions that have been answered, and I appreciate all of the folks who have been involved in getting my questions answered, but some of them have raised additional questions. So let me first start with safety and security.
Speaker 9: I asked a question and I got a response back, and I'm not sure it was completely accurate about what our safety or security rating is for the city of Denver's airport in terms of the vulnerability of our airport and.
Speaker 9: Not necessarily just related to checkpoint, but in general. Um, and I don't know if this is, what's the word I'm looking for. Maybe protected information, but. So so the question I want to know the answer to my question is, are we at the highest level of the security rating on the scale that is used by federal government
Speaker 9: agencies to rate the security risks of airports around the country?
Speaker 12: I'm not aware of any particular rating system that is used that's applied to our airport. What I will tell you is that the TSA every I believe it's three years, does a vulnerability assessment. And the last two or three of them, they have pointed out that our Great Hall is indeed a vulnerability that we need to address
Speaker 12: . Not sure that directly answers your question.
Speaker 9: Yeah, I'm just trying to figure out where we are on that scale, because I understand there is a a rating, if you will. And so that's why I'm asking the question.
Speaker 12: And none of us here at the from the airport are aware of a rating scale for the airports.
Speaker 9: Okay. Well, let me go on with my next question. So it sounds like the issues have not been completely resolved between the CIA and the airlines in terms of concerns about throughput traffic on level six and how those will be resolved.
Speaker 9: Is that accurate? And it sounds like there are still ongoing conversations.
Speaker 12: I'll let Mr. Malloy come up and tell you from the united side of things. But I think we've worked really hard the last couple of weeks. I think they're planning team agrees that the simulation showed that it all works.
Speaker 12: What we are focusing on now is if it shouldn't work and let's just say things change, right? There are there are other aspects that could happen in the next couple of years that we have not anticipated. We are looking at what we are jointly calling relief valves, ways that we could add even more capacity.
Speaker 12: But I think it might be good for you to hear directly from United on this.
Speaker 9: That would be helpful. And in the meantime, it's my understanding, if you would just please come to the microphone that the. What I heard pretty loud and clear was that the open TSA lanes that are managed by non airline or airport employees are federal government employees would require 28 of those lanes to be open and staffed.
Speaker 9: So if you can help address where we're at in the process and whether those issues have fully been resolved or are there still ongoing conversations with DIA about addressing the concerns that were, I think, pretty eloquently expressed when we had our committee meeting about.
Speaker 9: Backup and co-mingling of TSA check in traffic along with passenger ticketing and baggage check in traffic that would be all located on level six.
Speaker 8: So to answer your first question, conversations are ongoing. I think we've been encouraged by those conversations in the last couple of weeks. We do have an ideological disagreement about when you pull the relief valves. We would like to see those valves incorporated into the Great Hall Construction Program so that we don't have a situation that the design
Speaker 8: fails. We'd prefer for those relief valves to be built now so that if something does happen, they're ready to go. And we don't have congestion. We have a genuine operational concern here. We want to make sure our customers can get through the airport efficiently.
Speaker 8: Your question, in terms of TSA, the simulation study does say that with 28 lanes of the 34 lanes, that the queuing should not back out into the lobby. That's only six lanes that can be unstaffed by TSA. And we have seen through our implementation of checkpoint projects throughout the country, that's pretty aggressive staffing by TSA.
Speaker 8: So we remain pretty concerned. I know the the airport feels pretty convinced that we can work with TSA and solve that problem. We have not seen that in reality in other airports.
Speaker 9: So can you and Kimmel ask you the same question? Help address what we see as normal staffing levels today? Are we are we operating at 100% or are we at 80% with TSA lines open?
Speaker 12: So it varies. Every day we review the schedule of the day with TSA as to the ebbs and flows of traffic, and so they attempt to staff it as best they can in terms of using their resources. I think they do a fairly good job.
Speaker 12: We have had amazing growth in the last year and we have had occasions here recently where we have been beyond the queue. But it is not because they're not staffing lanes, it's because currently we don't have enough capacity for this growth that we are seeing.
Speaker 12: I'll also just to comment as as Mr. Malloy said, we do think the TSA is going to want to staff this facility. This is their new prototype that we have an IMU with them. They are working with us on the design and developing this new concept for screening, and it is in their best interest to make sure
Speaker 12: that this doesn't fail. So I think they have a an unusual commitment to staff this airport that they may not have in others that are in the United System.
Speaker 9: And Kim, just from having the opportunity to travel and review the technology that we're going to be utilizing it, it is very apparent that that would assist with the traffic throughput, but it's still contingent on how many lanes we have open.
Speaker 9: Correct?
Speaker 12: Absolutely, yes. Okay.
Speaker 9: Mr. President, I do have other questions. I know you've got people in the queue. If you could just put me back in. I'll come back later with some of the other questions.
Speaker 1: Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Councilwoman Ortega. Councilman, New.
Speaker 13: York, you. Let's just talk about the project review process. Can you describe how the proposed projects are going to be reviewed on an ongoing basis and reviewing the cost and the schedule and the quality of construction?
Speaker 12: Certainly. Well, we are at 30% design right now. So with with the optimism that this will be approved tonight, we will take that 30% to 100% between now and next summer, working very hard with our our partners here.
Speaker 12: Once we begin construction, then things change a little bit. Gisela has a third party who relates who directly reports to her, who will be overseeing the construction in terms of change orders and anything financial. On a regular basis, they'll be doing that oversight.
Speaker 12: We will also have an executive committee that will have representatives from this body, as well as representatives from the mayor's office and other city agencies that will be briefed on a regular basis on the process, both in terms of the construction and the cost.
Speaker 12: You also know we have an elected auditor that has the responsibility of making sure that everything we do at the airport is done in a legal and efficient manner. And I am assuming that Auditor O'Brien will periodically put this project on the list of things to audit.
Speaker 12: So there will be that outside audit as well. I'd also say because of the structure of a P3, there is additional oversight from the investors on the Ferrovial side who are very concerned about the investment and making sure there's a return so that there's that level of oversight.
Speaker 12: And then additionally, all the bondholders put yet another level of oversight. So there are a number of layers that will be looking at this project for the next 34 years.
Speaker 13: And I should say the Finance Department will be involved with that review process as well as the auditor. You know, they own their they on your review committee are the guys learned and the individual the structure of the project manager is going to be part of that with the finance department.
Speaker 12: Yes. The Brendan Hanlon, our CFO, is actually a member of the executive committee.
Speaker 13: And the person in Portuguese. Is that more of a project manager person that will he actually this person be going to the site or is it really more of a financial individual is looking at the financial details review.
Speaker 12: It's more from the financial part perspective.
Speaker 13: Well, there'll be a person, a project manager that will be looking at the construction as it goes along and working with partners and and everybody. That gives you reports about construction progress. And.
Speaker 12: You know, Stu Williams, well, he will be living and breathing this job 24 seven.
Speaker 13: One of the things that's been very effective with the National Western Center is is Kelly and his staff coming and giving quarterly reviews to our city council committee. And I just want to know, would you be willing to do that for our Business Development Committee to just brief the city council so that all council members can, you
Speaker 13: know, get an opportunity to to listen to how that things are progressing during the construction period.
Speaker 12: We'd be delighted to do that.
Speaker 13: Be great. Thank you. Now, my colleague brought up change directors, you know, being a cause that, you know, the city may occur if it happens, if you start getting into the 100 million, $120 million contingency, is a red flag going to go off or what's going to happen with them?
Speaker 13: When you start thinking about when you start getting into that contingency, especially if you if you if a if some major design situation occurs where you may even exceed that 120 million, that's the you know, we want to safeguard that.
Speaker 13: How do how do you plan on monitoring that?
Speaker 12: Well, first off, we are going to be very transparent about any use of the contingency. Let me start there. If we were to exceed it, we would actually have to come back to this body and get an amendment to the contract, because the contract has a maximum amount that we can spend.
Speaker 12: But yes, we are going to be monitoring it closely. I think these are not going to be little teeny things that add up. This contingency will be used for large issues that we have to deal with large industry issues.
Speaker 12: So they will be very obvious and transparent to all of you.
Speaker 13: Okay. Ask very good question about the concession agreement. You know, if if Ferrovial decides that it's not working out for them, do they have the right to transfer this agreement or or move this agreement to a third party outside of this?
Speaker 13: Or do they have the right to discontinue as a company and allow the rights for concession management to a third party?
Speaker 12: I'm going to ask City Attorney Dan Reamer to answer that one, if I might. Counsel.
Speaker 14: Good evening, Dan Ramer, City Attorney's Office. The short answer to the question is that the the developer's ability to transfer control and equity investment in the project is quite limited. There are two specific time periods. One is between the effective date and two years.
Speaker 14: So within the first two years of the development agreement, the ability to change and change control is subject to the city's essentially sole discretion. And after that two year period, it is up to the city's reasonable discretion. And there are conditions that have to be satisfied, such that the the substitute entity is equal or better capable to
Speaker 14: perform the services of the development agreement.
Speaker 13: Now, you know, we're not talking about construction. I'm talking about the concession agreement. That's what you're talking about, right?
Speaker 4: Yes.
Speaker 13: Okay. This concession group and with city council being involved with that process of approving that change of responsibility.
Speaker 14: It would not technically be an amendment to the development agreement because that power is conferred upon the city in the authority that the council would be granting this evening. So it would not require that the airport come back to the city council for that change in control.
Speaker 13: Would that be brought to a city council committee at least for discussion? So the city council would be apprized of that before it occurs?
Speaker 14: I am I am sure that it would in the ordinary course, but if you asked the CEO, I'm sure she would agree, just as she did a moment ago, to bring it to you, regardless of whether or not it would be standard.
Speaker 13: I think that's comforting. Last question for Gisela one. This I appreciate so much the last three weeks providing financial information to me to understand the deal, and I think it's a very attractive arrangement. So I appreciate stuff. Just a real simple question.
Speaker 13: I know the answer to this and I trust you explicitly. I just want to make sure that all the cost information that you've given us is accurate. And then in all the 15,000 pages of addendum or appendices, there's nothing in there.
Speaker 13: There's a hidden costs. It's going to come out all of a sudden later on down the road that's going to exceed the cost of this contract. That 1.8 is a good number, billion dollar number for our project, right?
Speaker 5: That's correct, Councilman. All of that is contained in the development agreement. And in that 1.8 billion other than the airports financing costs that we've discussed. But yes, nothing else in the 15,000 pages.
Speaker 13: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Brown.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Councilman. New council mechanics.
Speaker 3: Thank you very much. I so appreciate the responsiveness that Kim, your team has had very, very responsive and prompt. So my question I think for is for you in the discussions you've had with the airports, airlines so far, have you agreed to any changes in the construction projects that differ from the plans to date or whatever it
Speaker 3: is that's being considered tonight?
Speaker 12: Not at this point, no.
Speaker 3: Okay. And do you have any sense or can you estimate for me what the potential total risk is? So there's things they may want that are not even on the table. And then there's a range of things that, you know, that you all might be discussing.
Speaker 3: I guess what I want to get at is what is the maximum risk for cost changes related to the negotiations that are going to continue after this contract is approved.
Speaker 12: So I wish I could give you a number. We are not there. I will just tell you generally what we are talking about. We're talking about extending the baggage system to level one are the hotel and transit center so that they could possibly have a group check in at that level.
Speaker 12: We are talking about the possibility of locating some additional ticket counters on level four of the HTC served by that same baggage system that I just described. That would require some modification to level four, which right now is is empty, as well as an escalator that would come up from the from the level one up to level
Speaker 12: four and then also an escalator that would then get you up to level five. We're also talking about something that we refer to as modern zero. If you could imagine the area on both, you could do it on both east and west side, just to the north of the end of the ticket lobby that, you know, today
Speaker 12: we could add on in that area there. We could add not just ticket lobby space, but we could potentially add the level below so that we could add more bag claim space. All of those are just conceptual ways we might expand, and we are truly just doing, you know, freehand drawings at this point.
Speaker 12: And over the next few weeks, what we hope to do with the United is to refine them more and get to the point where we actually have costs, but we don't today. I'm sorry.
Speaker 3: Okay. And then this may be a question for Diane, but I want to understand, if we assume that some or all of these changes get made, are these all eligible for and with the costs come from the contingency, considering the fact that none of the costs would be known until after this contract were executed.
Speaker 8: So to be.
Speaker 14: Clear, owner changes are changes in scope.
Speaker 4: Mm hmm.
Speaker 14: They are not unforeseen circumstances. They are decisions made by the owner to change the scope of the project. The kinds of things that Kim just described could be added to the developer's scope or could be treated as entirely separate projects.
Speaker 14: It depends upon when the triggering event might be. If it's within the four year construction period, they may be owner changes and the airport may call upon the contingency in order to fund them. If they are simply plans that are that are developed and then put on a shelf that could be procured as an entirely separate construction
Speaker 14: project due to be resurrected when they may be needed. Five years, ten years, 15 years from now.
Speaker 3: Okay. Thank you for that information. A different set of questions. And this is one that I guess is a little less technical and a little more philosophical, because one of the fundamental questions we are grappling with is the role of the public sector and the role of private sector.
Speaker 3: So Kim, I guess I'd like to start with you and then I'll follow up with the similar questions for Ferrovial. But, you know, this is don't I don't expect you have a real number, but how many outside stakeholders would you say that you know, that you have met with throughout this process, as in people who are not
Speaker 3: part of the airport or the city family, but external stakeholders. People with an interest. People with an opinion.
Speaker 1: From the public.
Speaker 12: Well, I. Stacey is here somewhere. She might be able to tell me how many public presentations we have given. It's. Maybe 30 public presentations.
Speaker 3: I'm thinking more about meetings where you've really met with groups, whether it be CAF or whether it be contractor associations, folks who've said to you, I have an idea, I have a concern, I want to sit down and talk.
Speaker 3: And it may not be you personally if there's someone else. George I don't know if that falls more under your team, but I just trying to get a sense of how the airport as an entity operates as it relates to stakeholders.
Speaker 12: So I would say both ourselves and Ferrovial, independently and sometimes together have met with multiple groups, whether they are formal or informal groups here in Denver. You heard earlier this evening from CAF, we have met with CAF. You've heard from a number of a number of groups who have special interests that we have met with.
Speaker 12: We have tried to touch anyone we could. I would say that I don't know how to quantify it, but we have tried and tried very, very hard to do broad outreach. And do you want knowledge or do you want to say anything?
Speaker 3: But I want to just follow up with you first. Okay. So would it be safe to say that in some of those meetings you've heard ideas that you didn't agree with or met with groups who have publicly criticized the airport?
Speaker 12: I think that's fair to say.
Speaker 3: And I guess this you know, again, I'm just trying to get a sense of our role as a public entity. Why do you keep meeting with folks who might criticize you or who have ideas you don't agree with?
Speaker 12: So I think it's fair to say we also hear ideas we do agree with. So it's not all negative. And I think that's really important. And even if we don't agree, I think it's very important that the public understand why we're trying to do this.
Speaker 12: We are a public agency. We are your airport. We are everyone's airport. And while we're not going to get everybody on board, we certainly like to take the time to explain why we're doing it.
Speaker 3: Okay. Thank you. So I will now ask some similar questions to Rovio. And then after this set of questions, Mr. President, I, too, will see and let someone else take a turn. But so you heard our airport director talk a little bit.
Speaker 3: So is it your sense that if you all are awarded this contract, that you will be stepping into the role of, in some ways serving as a liaison or representative of a public airport, that you will be no longer just a private company, but you'll be doing something in the public sphere.
Speaker 3: Is that with that? Would you agree with that statement or.
Speaker 16: Every every public and private transaction that we carry out, we always take into account that fact that we will be working in an asset that is heavily exposed to the public sector, to the public service. So we are totally aware of that and have a long experience providing services to the public in the context of our concessions
Speaker 16: , lease leases and privatizations.
Speaker 3: So you you know, we had a mr. de Villa and a couple of others mentioned how very many meetings they had with you. Did they share some ideas with you that you maybe didn't agree with or that you weren't quite able to act on, but you kept meeting with them and found other things to talk about?
Speaker 3: Would that be?
Speaker 16: We have held many meetings with different stakeholders in the community with respect to construction, development, concession management and training centers. And we have found many ideas very interested or that can be accomplished. And developing this project or their ideas perhaps are less interesting or cannot be achieved in the context of this project.
Speaker 3: There's one particular community organization that has tried to meet with you and, you know, had one meeting and was told that you wouldn't meet with them any more. And that is you might hear the representative of the service workers, which is different than the construction workers.
Speaker 3: I would like to hear your explanation as to why you didn't feel that you had an obligation to continue to meet with them.
Speaker 16: Yes, we we have held at least three meetings and a number of conferences, a number of telephone conversations without a specific association. And what I would like to confirm is that Rubiales, a company that guarantees the rights of employees, is an employee of Ferrovial.
Speaker 16: I have the right to strike the freedom of association, collective bargaining, having the right to collective bargaining through representatives of employees or unions. I have access to prevailing wage framework agreements we consider trade unions as our partners. We have signed agreements with more than with more than 350 unions representing more than 12 million members, including 35 countries
Speaker 16: . So we are a friendly company with respect to unions. What has happened with this company is that the approach of this association was a good result into removing the right of choice of the union that would represent the future employees of the concessions in the Great Hall.
Speaker 16: And that's something that we will not be sympathetic or could agree with.
Speaker 3: So there was something you couldn't agree on. Did they ask to continue to talk and meet again?
Speaker 16: Excuse me?
Speaker 3: Did they ask to continue to meet and talk? Have they asked for meetings that with you?
Speaker 16: After the three meetings that we held and that meeting at Boeing that we could then. Except with decided to stop having more conversations, especially taking into account the aggressive approach of that association against the company they represent.
Speaker 3: Is there any other community organization or business that you've refused to meet with?
Speaker 4: No, no, no.
Speaker 3: Just one representing workers?
Speaker 16: That's correct.
Speaker 3: The community for airport fairness. Have you met with that organization? Sorry. The Committee for Airport Fairness. Have you met with with that organization? It's it's a group of folks interested in contracting and other.
Speaker 16: I think we held a meeting with then. I was not there personally.
Speaker 3: Yes, that's correct. Okay. Thank you.
Speaker 16: Sir.
Speaker 1: Councilwoman Cami. Is that okay? My screen is open. Councilman Espinosa sort of along that line, Tom Allen and any of the other union people that spoke. Could you.
Speaker 8: Come up?
Speaker 1: Are you all familiar with the Unite Here 23 group? And their requests for worker retention provisions.
Speaker 10: No. We're now more in the construction industry and those are collective bargaining.
Speaker 9: When you speak into the mic, please, whoever speaking. Councilman, identify yourself.
Speaker 10: I'm Ralph Llewellyn with the National Electrical Contractors Association. And we hold the bargaining rights for our electrical contractors who sign letters of assent to our agreements. I'm not familiar with that organization that you mentioned. Our main focus is with the IBEW electricians.
Speaker 1: Do you feel that workers that have that have worked at DIA and made it successful? I mean, you one of you cited its rankings and it's currently very well ranked in the world and in the nation. Do you feel that there should have been worker retention provisions in the contract for people that are currently employed out in
Speaker 1: the airport?
Speaker 10: I have to say I'm not that familiar with the demands of the players in that group. So I. I really have no comment on that.
Speaker 1: Go ahead, sir.
Speaker 10: Sure.
Speaker 6: Councilman Espinosa. Council. Mr. President. So, actually, I met Dave, DVR, contractor, exec and myself. Got to meet early on with representatives from Saunders and Ferrovial. And before I did that, I knew I had this meeting coming on and I did talk to Unite here.
Speaker 6: I talk with Kevin. I talked with the president of the Denver Area Labor Federation, Josh Downey, and told them I was going to have a meeting with Rossville and Saunders and ask them if they're just exactly what their what the problem was.
Speaker 6: If there was an issue there so that I would I would send them I would carry the message for them. When we met and I did that, I said, well, what I was told was that they were the they being the unite here their main their to me they only had two main issues then.
Speaker 6: One was that they is that they would not be interfered with if they tried to organize the workers in the new shops. And the other was that the workers would have jobs still, so they wouldn't lose their job if they if their shop moved out of the terminal to above or moved out to somewhere else in the
Speaker 6: airport. And I carried that message to Ferrovial and to Saunders. And what they told me was that they would not stand in the way of the workers if they wanted to organize. They wouldn't, they wouldn't. They would stay neutral.
Speaker 6: They wouldn't get involved in that. And they any of the people that were union out there now would still be union. If they wanted to be in the union, they would not interfere with those guys. I what I understood the main crux was the, the shops that were going to be built that weren't built yet.
Speaker 6: There was some disagreement over whether they would require them to be union or not. I think that was what at least what I understood was the crux of the conversation.
Speaker 1: And I appreciate, you know, sort of putting you on the spot. But, you know, as somebody who's, you know, an architect by trade, I'm not a you know, I.
Speaker 11: Wish architects had.
Speaker 1: A union. Right, because we worked long, long hours for lower wages despite what everyone thinks or what you see in the movies. The the so I'm trying to figure out how we got to a situation where there's union support on the labor, the on the construction labor side, but actual organized employees or, you know, struggling with this
Speaker 1: this with these terms or getting terms. So I appreciate the background. I probably still don't understand it the way I do. I'll probably ask Kevin later to sort of come up and collaborate.
Speaker 8: Yeah.
Speaker 6: So I think there was an agreement with the hotel out there that they wanted to model agreement with for political reasons, as I understand. But I don't really understand all of that. I know the issues. That's what I was told.
Speaker 1: So yeah, but there is no sort of blanket brotherhood across unions to say.
Speaker 6: Look, we're.
Speaker 1: Labor is labor.
Speaker 6: We know that we're in the construction phase of it. Certainly we I would like to see everybody via the union. I would like see everybody, even if they're not in the union, have good wages and fair pensions, health care.
Speaker 6: Those are things that we should all have as people here in this great country, in our great city. It makes our it makes our city better. It makes our communities better when we have those sorts of things. So I don't think that I think from what my perspective was, this was a contractor that was going to offer
Speaker 6: those types of jobs for the construction industry. And I think that's great.
Speaker 1: Okay. Well, some of that I right. I respect it. I mean, I understand that significant portion of the responsibility actually falls on us. We could have we could have as council sort of made provisions of that, that they would have to sort of incorporate into their agreements.
Speaker 1: And we didn't do that. So now we're in a situation.
Speaker 7: Where we're looking.
Speaker 1: For voluntary compliance. So I mean, our inclusion into their their agreement. So thank you all very much. Sorry to put you all in the spotlight.
Speaker 8: Anyone anyone else have something to say?
Speaker 10: A quick comment. Councilman Espinosa. Yeah. As a as a union, we do support dignity for all workers. We support that. And we'll fight for that. I will state that, you know, all of our construction trades issues have not been addressed as of yet.
Speaker 10: And still, you know, we're looking to all on the apprenticeship language as well, which is being talked about, concerned about timeliness of that. But as far as unite here, we haven't met with them, but certainly we support their them and their workers in their fight for dignity.
Speaker 1: Great. Thank you very much. So. Sure.
Speaker 3: I am here representing small businesses. I'm also an electrical contractor. Electrical contractors or small businesses usually are not union members. So. I guess that the city of Denver is kind of like to try to accomplish a perfect balance to give opportunities to small businesses and big businesses and working together.
Speaker 3: So I ask for the consideration of this job not to be closed just to union members, because that will take a big chunk of the small business community.
Speaker 12: Out of the participation of this job. Thank you. Thank you.
Speaker 1: So to Ferrovial, did you. Did you at some point do an analysis and have some sort of understanding of the economic impact if you had made sort of any sort of concessions or labor agreements.
Speaker 7: Of some sort?
Speaker 16: Council Member Yes, we analyzed the proposal made by Unite here. You know, to understand the terms and conditions that they were proposing. And the first point that I would like to clarify for the benefit of everyone is that our great hall partners will not be the employer of any of the workers that will be working, hopefully, if
Speaker 16: this project is approved in the future. Concessionaires of the Great Hall. We are not that we are not going to be a master concessionaire. We are just developing procurement. Those units and the future concessionaires will have to hire to recruit those employees.
Speaker 16: What we have always stated from the very beginning, more than a year ago, we proposed creating a training center for those future employees of the concessionaires in order to help in the development. And we even committed ourselves to injecting money on day one.
Speaker 16: And I'm sure you will have seen in the financial model money contributions on an annual basis in order to foster the development of those future employees of the concessionaire. So we are very well aware that having those employees being developed, been retained that can develop an excellent career in those units is critical for the community.
Speaker 16: But what we cannot do, what we cannot accept is signing on behalf of those future concessionaire exclusivity agreements, to have those employees of the concessionaires being represented by one trade union, because that would neglect the right of those employees to decide who is the right representative of those employees.
Speaker 1: So do you have.
Speaker 7: That number on what you thought.
Speaker 1: It would, the economic consequence it would be to this agreement?
Speaker 16: We don't have I couldn't estimate the number to the economic standpoint of that agreement and.
Speaker 1: And I'll finish this line of questioning and I'll see.
Speaker 8: I had other topics, but.
Speaker 1: So you did the grant, the analysis in the green. So where I struggle with that, having read the entirety of the contract not I will admit to not in all the appendices is that there are that.
Speaker 8: You there are a.
Speaker 7: Lot of.
Speaker 1: Provisions that you are requirements that you are obligating any of your concessionaires to adhere to through the terms of the contract that are flow that are, you know, carried out. I mean, carry.
Speaker 7: Through pass through from.
Speaker 1: From Denver to your.
Speaker 8: Concessionaires.
Speaker 1: Writing additional provisions is not prohibited.
Speaker 8: So long as they don't they don't.
Speaker 1: Jack mean they're not illegal. So there certainly would have been the capacity whether, you know, it's not something it is. I want to stress that it is your choice to not have.
Speaker 8: That is not.
Speaker 1: There's nothing that we're.
Speaker 8: Doing that's preventing you from from making those requirements of your concessionaires. You simply do not want to put.
Speaker 1: Those sort of requirements on your concessionaires. That is correct. Correct.
Speaker 16: You understand that we we must keep the right of choice, of the right of the representatives that the future employees of those concessionaires want to want to have.
Speaker 8: Okay.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you. Councilman Espinosa. Councilor Lopez.
Speaker 11: Yeah, thank you. I wanted to continue the line of questioning with with Labor and in particular with the conversations with the concession workers and well, I guess the know here and not sure if they will be I mean drivers at all.
Speaker 11: I guess so. I want to come back to this. The the situation where you said you've met with the folks from Unite here. How many times?
Speaker 7: Yes, we we.
Speaker 16: Had a very long conference call with then in order to understand their approach with a representative from the East Coast. That was a very long meeting in order to understand what they were proposing. I had a physical meeting in in the Westin Hotel at the airport with three representatives from Unite here.
Speaker 16: And after that meeting, I had a very long conversation again in order to provide feedback about that meeting.
Speaker 11: Now, do you. Were there any kind of middle ground that was achieved? Was there any kind of I don't want to say this is believed to be redundant, but was there any kind of concession made or any kind of middle ground achieved?
Speaker 11: I mean, it seems like there's been ongoing conversations. Has there been any proposal?
Speaker 16: Basically, we council member. We received an email you. From Unite here. What we were told was that if we were going to if we could accept that you. Completely that John would support from really in this process. There were a number of clauses in that MRU that I don't understand if could be cited through negotiation or not
Speaker 16: . That's that's something that we don't that we've been approached that would not be acceptable, especially neglecting the rights of the future employees of those concessionaires to decide who is the right representatives of those employees.
Speaker 11: Now I understand that ask for unique exclusivity. I want to get away from union exclusivity. And, you know, I don't want to it's a slippery slope. And when it starts using language that third parties, workers in the union, I don't like that.
Speaker 11: I think it's. You mean we don't throw our third party ourselves as folks in the United States? Right. As one union. And I want to in unison and I want to focus on that word, but I. I mean.
Speaker 11: Were there any counter offers or proposals? It was. I mean, we understand that retention is an issue. We understand that that wages are an issue. Have there been anything any commitments to those issues? Not necessarily to to an organization.
Speaker 11: But to have those issues out there that they are bringing up. Right. And what are those what are those proposals or what are those counter ideas or offers?
Speaker 16: We we understand with respect to jobs that the issue that the concessionaires are going to have in the Great Hall Project is to attract and retain talent, as far as we know. In the airport, there are more than 400 job opportunities available.
Speaker 16: So we all understand that the problem is going to be job destruction. There is going to be job retention and attraction. That's why we are focusing all our attention, commitment and investment in developing that training center. That is an obligation for our team according to the development agreement that you will have seen.
Speaker 16: With respect to your second question. Could you please repeat your point?
Speaker 11: Councilmember Yeah, I'm wondering since in talking about the issues of retention and talking about the issues or mostly job retention, then and then, you know, the living wage piece, right? Aside from exclusivity with a union? Yes. Right. Have there been any commitments to meet those two concerns?
Speaker 11: Right. And what commitments are those are those written commitments? Is there something in writing that says that this is something that you will honor? Right.
Speaker 16: But prevailing wage obligations are included in the development agreement. As you know, council member. So that's an obligation that our thing will have to comply. That's an obligation that we are used to complying in every year where we work.
Speaker 16: As I was explaining to Council member Kanis before.
Speaker 11: And that that applies to the concession workers.
Speaker 16: As far as I understand those, cos those workers are workers of the concessionaires and they will have to deal with their employees the kind of salaries that they will have.
Speaker 11: Access to and as those jobs are coming up. The retention issue. Is there a commitment of ferrovial or operators to those employees to keep them? To give the first right of refusal, what they brought up is their commitment.
Speaker 16: We have a commitment to make interviews, at least three interviews. That is going to be done by the future concessionaires to those persons that have lost their jobs because of this project.
Speaker 11: What would be in a circumstance where they would not be employed anymore? Like you said, it's three interviews. Is is there something that would prevent them from gaining employment if they've been working at a concession in the airport for a long time?
Speaker 11: And let's say that the concept changes or whatever. Is there anything that would prevent them from getting that?
Speaker 16: As far as I understand, the issue in the airport is retaining. So having an employee that is available to be recruited, that has experience working in the airport, that has been but not not getting a job when there are now more than 400 job job back answers.
Speaker 16: And we are going to develop through the future concessionaires on 800 positions. I think that is a very unlikely scenario, taking into account the skills of that worker that has been there for ten years. Yeah.
Speaker 11: I understand. I just. And, Mr. President, if you look. I understand that. I just want to make sure that that that that that that employee that worker knows that because, yes, there they're going to be 400 jobs. As you guys are talking about.
Speaker 11: There will be 400 jobs. Like, hey, man, there's there's a bunch of jobs for you to choose from. Don't worry about it. But that doesn't necessarily get the guarantee then the first right of refusal. Is there any been any kind of agreement that addresses the first right of refusal?
Speaker 11: Right. Aside from the three interviews.
Speaker 16: There are no more counter guarantees in the development agreement on their behalf.
Speaker 11: Okay. Thank you. Thank thank you so much. And, Mr. President, if I just have one more on another topic, that's fine. This has to do with contracting with mwb and also well, in this case, activity. Right. The program and I don't know who's most appropriate to answer this question, but 34 years, right.
Speaker 11: We we all talk about, you know, 34 years. I think, you know, my daughter's ten now. She'll be 44 when this when we have a next the next crack of this. In those 34 years as minorities and as women, we would hope that, well, as the population grows.
Speaker 11: We would hope that the the number of entrepreneurs that are women and minorities also grow. What are we doing to make sure in that 34 years that where we're at right now, that that number, whatever it is, 33%, whatever percentage that that number doesn't stay flat.
Speaker 11: Those 33, those 34 years that it grows with that. And what are the determining factors and what's the commitment from the airport and ferrovial, I guess, with this with this contract to ensure that that stays in pace with population changes and growth.
Speaker 14: So Councilman, to answer, I just want to separate the maybe be ordinance from the act.
Speaker 11: And that's why you asked it in both the MWB and then KDB program.
Speaker 14: So that the maybe ordinance clearly applies to the design and construction, the four year design and construction phase, the $650 million project that the CEO described before goals have been established 33% for design, 18% for construction put forward by the Office of Economic Development and presented by the Mayor.
Speaker 14: So those goals apply to the design and construction phase of the project as KDB, the AC, KDB, the Airport Concession Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Program, which is a mandate of the Department of Transportation. That is what will control active participation in the concession program going forward during the 30 year operating period.
Speaker 14: That goal has been established within the development agreement at 26%.
Speaker 11: So would you say that the feds control that? We don't we don't determine that.
Speaker 14: That the number is a locally derived number based on disparity and other factors. The program itself is overseen by the Department of Transportation in the Federal Aviation Administration. So that goal has been set at 26%, but that goal will be revisited.
Speaker 14: So what I'm trying to get at is the answer to your question with respect to KDB. The goal will be revisited during the operating period and we've set that that period at ten years to correspond to the likely length of the individual concession agreements.
Speaker 14: The contract requires that concession agreements be no longer than ten years. And so we've set ten years. So the AC DB goal will be revisited during the operating period.
Speaker 11: Okay. I appreciate that. And, you know, council president, my concern with this questioning is that it would I'd be hopeful in 34 years that there is no more disparity to have to argue about. But as you've seen and the disparity continues and I don't want to pretend like there wouldn't be disparity in 34 years.
Speaker 11: Right. It hasn't gone away recently. And I don't want to I want to make sure that we keep that in mind. So that's an important value of the city in this council. And I want to make sure that that's reflected in every movement that we do in this.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you, Councilman. You're getting in the comments there. All right, Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I don't see the fellows here from. Ask me, are they is anyone still here? That was Nick Hostetler. Okay. He had made a statement that I maybe I wanted to make sure I understood it correctly, but he seemed to indicate that there were city jobs that were in jeopardy.
Speaker 1: He left. Okay.
Speaker 6: Yeah. There's Kim. You don't know what that was about, do you? I can't imagine that we would be reducing the number of city jobs on this.
Speaker 12: No, not to my knowledge. Is there any discussion around that?
Speaker 6: Thank you. And Mr. Jack Quinn from United might be able to answer this along with Kim. In your talks, you've made some progress. But if we vote on this tonight, the agreement is is approved. And what I'm wondering is, do you see is there room within this agreement after it's approved, assuming it is for you to conclude
Speaker 6: what the matters that you are after? Within the framework of that agreement. Once it's at once it's approved, because once it's done, we live by those rules.
Speaker 9: This.
Speaker 10: So to make sure that I answer your question properly, just to restate what you said. Are we comfortable that if approved tonight, that there's enough within the existing format to be able to affect the change?
Speaker 6: Yes, of course. I wanted to reach to reach a satisfactory conclusion to your issues.
Speaker 10: Yeah. Actually, Gavin would probably be better for that.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 8: I think the short answer is it will require change orders. If we were to implement any of the levers we have identified, they are not in scope of the current contract and I know that they could be treated as a different project, but at the end of the day, there's one payer for that and that's the airline
Speaker 8: community. So it will cost more money to implement any of the changes that we've suggested.
Speaker 6: Okay. Kim, would you agree with that?
Speaker 12: If. If we were. If we get to the point that we believe we need to implement them. Now, that would be true, I think, though. Well, let's start with we're still working. We're still trying to define them. Number two, the question is, do they need to be built now or not?
Speaker 12: I think we as the airport have a great deal of faith in the work that we've done with the planners in the simulation that we can't see today, investing millions of dollars into something as a relief valve when when we don't see a need for it.
Speaker 12: Right. We also because this project is being done in phases. The ticket lobby will be up and running while we're building the the checkpoints. So I think we feel there is a period down the road where we can evaluate this and see how it's all working.
Speaker 12: So I would say to you in our mind, it's not something we would do to modify the contract today. More likely, if a few years from now we decide we need to do it, they would be standalone projects if indeed they're done.
Speaker 6: Okay. And I think what I'm hearing is there's a couple of ways to do that. We could do it as a separate project. We could do it as change ordering through the through this contract. But either way, approving this tonight doesn't stand in the way of resolving these talks.
Speaker 12: It does not. And I'll just remind everyone, you know, United is our major carrier. We know they're our future. We know they're growing here. We want it to work and to succeed with them. So we're not fighting that.
Speaker 12: We don't want United to be successful and grow and have the the space that they need. We just don't agree on how this plan impacts them right now. But we will do everything we can to make sure united to successful here.
Speaker 6: Okay. Thank you. Kim, on the in the concessions development and the management program, there is a every two year review of market trends and ability for ferrovial to modify the direction it's going in consultation with with us as the owners.
Speaker 6: I correct.
Speaker 12: That's correct.
Speaker 6: So. So in approving something that will be in place for 30 years of the of the on M period does not mean that whatever is there on day one is there on year 30. In fact, would probably be highly unlikely that it would.
Speaker 12: Absolutely. And we are sharing the benefit of the revenue. So both parties have incentive to work to continually improve what we have there in the Great Hall.
Speaker 6: Mm hmm. And could you describe briefly, just briefly, the recourses that the city has for nonperformance or, you know, for. My understanding is there are penalties for nonperformance. And remarkably, in my view, there's no bonuses for for better performance.
Speaker 6: I'm reminded that you might have negotiated that.
Speaker 12: Yeah.
Speaker 14: So to take the last part of your question first, with respect to bonuses, there is only one bonus, early bonus, which is early completion of the TSA security screening checkpoint. That is the only financial bonus with respect to payment deductions.
Speaker 14: There is a scheme in place where if the developer fails to perform in the manner that's prescribed in the development agreement, then there will be payment deductions made against their supplemental payments. So they they do have to perform.
Speaker 14: There has been some confusion about the guarantee of their profit. It is not guaranteed in the sense that if they fail to deliver and make the project available according to their standards, they will not achieve that anticipated rate of return.
Speaker 6: Right. And just one word of advice. I won't use the word scheme when talking about this. Kevin Abels calculation. I've I've met with you several times. I've also met with the concessionaires in the airport. I'm having trouble understanding.
Speaker 6: So I keep hearing that the principal problem with the concession operations is keeping people there in the first place. And the concessionaires are telling me that they can pretty much guarantee that workers will be displaced and terminal will be able to be positioned elsewhere.
Speaker 6: And if it's not on the airside, if that person can't get an airside badge for some reason that most concessionaires have operations in town and would be able to place them in town. Do you have any notion of how many workers you think unite here?
Speaker 6: Things might not be placed.
Speaker 8: Well, I mean, this the renovations in the very terminal will impact between two and 300 existing workers. Mm hmm. Whether or not they are placed or not is now, you know, totally at the hands of chance. The agreements that we've come to with other, more responsible airport companies like the Westin and midfield create a pipeline and a
Speaker 8: system for people to land in a job that they're qualified for that that simply will not exist in the Great Hall Project, unfortunately.
Speaker 6: Okay. Thank you. That's all for now.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Flynn. Councilman Black.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I have three questions, but I'm going to add one for a fourth to follow up on Councilman Flynn's last question. Can someone from the airport comment on what Kevin said about there not being a pipeline?
Speaker 3: Because I thought there was a direct pipeline to provide jobs for the displaced workers.
Speaker 1: For.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Councilwoman. I'm George Merritt with Airport Government Affairs. So we spent last fall working with our concessions association and to look at the number of employees in the Great Hall and working with them. What we found is that most of the concessions there were part of an ownership group that were ready and willing to bring those
Speaker 10: workers out onto the concourses, or, as Councilman Flynn said, moving downtown. And for those that were not part of the of that of an ownership group, we even instituted programs at the airport specifically with those people in mind.
Speaker 10: So we created that website that all of you have seen a job website at the airport to bring people out there. And then again, our concessions association is eager to talk about. There are 400 vacant jobs ready for people to fill at any given moment.
Speaker 10: So I think it's fair to say that our concessions association has embraced this challenge to make sure that the people that want to work at the airport, particularly those that are badged, are valuable commodities and we want to keep them out there.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 1: And number two.
Speaker 3: That? No, that one didn't count. Okay, one. I know I've heard about three different opportunities for professional development, the Great Hall Academy, which is in cooperation with Metropolitan State University and Emily Griffiths Technical College, and then apprenticeship programs.
Speaker 3: And then also about an engineering apprenticeship program with the Colorado School of Mines. So is there someone who can just talk about some of those professional development opportunities?
Speaker 16: Council member and I can talk with respect to the Great Hall Partners Training Center. That's a. And a training center that will be developed, by the way, told partners that that that activity has been included in the development agreement.
Speaker 16: As part of the document that was referring, Councilmember Flynn of the Council of the Concessions Development Management Program. So that's an obligation on our site, although was something that we already proposed one year ago as part of our proposal, our bid to the airport of our to Denver International Airport, that training center.
Speaker 16: I would say that if this project is approved is a reality. There is a budget already allocated. We are committing $100,000 on day one and 50% of the marketing fund to that training center. We have the tools and the partners, the tools we have been working.
Speaker 16: Without different associations, the concession associations and the existing concession as the airport, in order to identify the right framework and the right needs to recognize that training the standpoint of the future employees of the concessionaires. And secondly, we also have the tools with respect to the partners.
Speaker 16: We have been working with Metro State University, with Emily Griffith Foundation and with the community college in order to have the right partners that can help us put in a facility standpoint, logistics and also to put the courses together.
Speaker 16: We have also had discussions with the airport in order to have venues available in the airport, in order to get the most efficient training and avoid that the concessionaire employees can use, that time can waste time going from one place to the other for training purposes.
Speaker 16: We think that we can develop these 14 years ago. We start something similar like pivotal right now that Heathrow Academy has been able to put into work more than 30, more than 3200 employees because of our efforts putting that together.
Speaker 16: We also have an internal university call for our university that has a massive institute and developing this training center. So with the right partners, with the right assessment and with the Budget Committee, that we think that this can be a reality if these facilities of.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Is there someone who can comment on those other. Apprenticeship and car. School of mines.
Speaker 1: I think I think Howard talked about apprenticeship.
Speaker 6: Councilman. Councilman Black. Councilwoman Black. So apprenticeships are a great, great tool for us and for a lot of people. And really and I'll speak specifically about the Pipefitters because I know about that apprenticeship more than I do the others, although they're they're all based pretty much the same way as I understand it.
Speaker 6: And what happens there is is it's a five year apprenticeship. It costs the student $200 a year for books. The local union subsidizes the rest of the cost of that school year. And it's an accredited course. It's an accredited college course.
Speaker 6: So at the end of five years, they have 45 college credits for about $1,000 and no student debt. They actually get a raise every year, a pretty good raise to 10% a year, which and 15% the last two years.
Speaker 6: So it's a really a pretty darn good deal. You could actually get your associate's degree with just the general education classes. There's 17 general education classes that that if you could take them, Simon Tinsley, if you'd like to, you could also come out.
Speaker 6: And if you get the right jobs and you hit their breaking up over time in the right places, that you can make a pretty darn good living. $100,000 is not unheard of. So it's apprenticeship is a great a great opportunity for a lot of folks.
Speaker 3: So are you going to be actively recruiting people to be apprentices to do work at the airport?
Speaker 6: Yes, ma'am. We already are in airport in many other places, too. We are actively recruiting every day. So that that's one of the reasons we have a grant with the state to do community outreach, specifically to reach out to folks that have been disadvantaged for one reason or another, whether it's where they live, whether it's they're a
Speaker 6: minority or whatever that might be. It lists people into the middle class. This route is truly transformational, and not just for that job. Oftentimes for generations down the road, it's made a difference in people's lives. And we had members here today that could tell you that they retired and went home.
Speaker 6: So but I hope that answers your question.
Speaker 3: Thank you. I think that's great. Right. Thanks. That was only two. So the last question is for someone from the airport. And it's a two part question. Eisenberg said his is the Union Station public private partnership was 99 years.
Speaker 3: And at the committee meeting we talked about how, for example, the Elway's concession agreement was for ten years. So can someone come in and why this agreement is for 30 years?
Speaker 5: So, Councilwoman, typically when you invest in a project, you depending on the size of the investment, you need a certain amount of time in order to recover that investment. So if you take some of our smaller concessions that may be, let's say, 100,000, 200,000 or even up to a million or two that we'll invest to outfit a
Speaker 5: concession at the airport. Typically, 7 to 10 years may be adequate for that. But if you're talking about a project that's in the hundreds of millions, it is not unreasonable to have a 30 year return. If you think about the bonds that we issue at the airport to fund our projects.
Speaker 5: Those are also in the hundreds of millions. Those are 30 year bonds. And that gives you the appropriate period of time to ensure that you can recover your investment and make the payments. So it really is tied size of investment, length of return.
Speaker 3: Thank you. You're welcome.
Speaker 1: Ah. Anymore. Okay. Uh, kill some black councilman Clark.
Speaker 11: Thank you, Mr. President. Sorry to keep bringing us back to some of these. First of all, I just want to thank the entire team for being available for questions and helping us navigate through this contract. I want to start with airport.
Speaker 11: I'm guessing this will be a George Merritt question, but I'll let the airport team pick back two workers at the airport. You've heard a lot of questions about this is obviously something that's really important to a lot of us.
Speaker 11: And, you know, I had had the opportunity to meet with people, some of the awesome people who work at our airport and make it the great place that it is out in the Great Hall. Also concerned that Great Hall closes for four years.
Speaker 11: That's a long time to wait in line to have a new job in that same space. So I just want to get real. You know, we've talked a lot about it, but people right now who are employed in the airport, in the Great Hall, will they have a job when this construction goes under?
Speaker 11: When this goes under construction?
Speaker 10: Thank you, Councilman. So the short answer to that is yes. We worked very hard last fall with our concessions association to look at, and you've.
Speaker 11: Already covered that. I'm looking for a commitment here in public. Well, the workers who are in the Great Hall, who want to continue working, will they have a job.
Speaker 10: Particularly if you can pass a background check to or B badge to go out on the concourses? You know, if you had to move from a from a great hall out to the concourses, that that would be the hurdle.
Speaker 10: But, yes, I think if you are ready and want to keep working at the airport, we've put in place several systems. So that.
Speaker 8: Yes, that is absolutely correct.
Speaker 11: Okay. And then for Ferrovial. Yes. I know that there were issues and negotiation and things that you didn't want or feel comfortable committing on behalf of future concessionaires. But will ferrovial respect workers rights to organize and form a union should they choose to?
Speaker 11: So will Ferrovial respect workers, the workers right to organize and form a union should they choose to. And will ferrovial interfere in any way with the workers rights to organize and form a union so that you.
Speaker 16: Will not.
Speaker 11: Interfere? Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Wow. Councilman Clark, that was quick. Okay, we are back to the top. Councilman Castro.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. Someone from the airport. About the concessions. So, as I understand it, part of the agreement is in the Great Hall. No one can have more than 20% of either the restaurant side or the retail side, and no more than 30% combined.
Speaker 10: Is that correct? My understanding that correct.
Speaker 16: Yes, that's.
Speaker 10: Correct. Okay. And for for someone from the airport. So does this agreement allow Ferrovial to be a concession owner in either the Great Hall or on the concourses?
Speaker 14: No, it does not. So two part question. With respect to the concourses, the development agreement has it says nothing about and provides no rights, contractual or otherwise, to the developer in connection with concourse concessions.
Speaker 10: But it doesn't prevent them from bidding for the concourses.
Speaker 14: No, it doesn't prevent them from from bidding on on any concession contract. But the second part of your question, the development agreement does prohibit the developer from being an owner in concessions in the Great Hall. So they are not, as the representative from Ferrovial explained, they are not a master concessionaire.
Speaker 14: Typically a master concessionaire is the owner and operator of some number of the concession locations. The Great Hall Partners will not be the owner and the operator of individual concessions.
Speaker 10: Okay. And I think you alluded to it before. Michael Kiley made this statement. Why are we guaranteeing of overall a profit? Are we guaranteeing for overall a profit?
Speaker 14: No, we are not guaranteeing ferrovial a profit. One thing I would be clear on is that there's always mark up in construction contracts and various contracts. So we do guarantee profit in the same sense that we are guaranteeing profit here.
Speaker 14: But my point before was simply that the 10.8% return is realized only if the Great Hall Partners team performs at the level that is identified within their baseline financial forecast, and that includes their 20% of the concession revenue.
Speaker 14: So that is doesn't come close to being guaranteed. They absolutely have to perform in order to get to that rate of return. Even with respect to the 4.8% rate of return, that is contingent upon great hall partners delivering and making the facility available and satisfying the performance standards.
Speaker 14: And if they do not, then there will there may be performing payment deductions that would take them below that 4.8%.
Speaker 10: Okay. Thank you. And one question for Ferrovial. One of our speakers alluded to the fact that you may be ending contracts at UK airports. Can you address that?
Speaker 16: Yeah. Thank you for the question. Council member Ferrovial led the consortium that took over a company called B.A. in the UK in 2006. That after we after that transaction was completed, the antitrust authorities in the UK forced our company, that consortium, to divest a number of airports in that country because of a potential monopoly, because of a
Speaker 16: potential monopolistic situation in two areas of the UK, in southern England and in Scotland. Because of that decision of the antitrust authorities, we were forced to sell two airports in England, Gatwick and Stansted and one airport in Scotland, Edinburgh.
Speaker 16: So yes, there were those divestment, those day when this happened that we were forced to sell those airports because the antitrust authorities of the UK forced us to do it. And that's right.
Speaker 10: When was when did you get out of Stansted?
Speaker 16: Stansted transaction if I am not wrong happened in 2000, late 2012.
Speaker 10: Okay. Thank you. That's all for now, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Catherine. Catherine, council member. Take a back up.
Speaker 9: Thank you. So I want to go back to the. Issue of potentially solving some of the airline concerns by looking at level four of the hotel and transit center. So I would like to know and know it's something that I was able to see and it was talked about when I did a tour of the airport as
Speaker 9: a potential future project that may come on. But it was not part of the discussion of the build out of the Great Hall. And so, number one, is any of that covered in the existing costs for the Great Hall right now?
Speaker 9: If that ends up being a solution for how to address some of the throughput issues raised by the airlines?
Speaker 12: No, it is not in this contract.
Speaker 9: Okay. Does that require TSA approvals and or financing? What if we move down to to proceed with that?
Speaker 12: So any time you inject baggage into the system that then screens baggage, we would certainly be working with TSA to make sure that they agreed with the system that we designed and built there. Not sure if that answered your question.
Speaker 9: Well, we would need their involvement if we're looking at any TSA check in point under level four or are we only looking at baggage? We are only one point. There was some discussion about potentially some TSA lanes, if you will.
Speaker 9: Yes.
Speaker 12: Level four two, we are not looking at putting in TSA lanes that would actually check people in. That's not part of what we're talking about with the United. We're talking about ticket lobby, space and kiosks. That's what we're discussing.
Speaker 12: What you're talking about in terms of TSA use of level. Four years ago when we built out the HTC, we thought that the fourth floor might be a place where we could relieve TSA by adding additional checkpoints. Right now, using these automatic screening lanes that we're proposing, we don't need to use that space for checkpoints.
Speaker 12: So we're talking about ticket lobby space in level four.
Speaker 9: Okay. And in doing that, it would free up some of the space on level six if that were to be done as a.
Speaker 12: Potential no, this would be in addition to what we're building on level six. Okay.
Speaker 9: All right. Let me go to my next question. I had a comment on that one, but I will leave that for later. I want to ask Diane Durfee if she wouldn't mind coming to. The microphone. Deanne was brought on to assist some of us who had additional questions around the review of the contract.
Speaker 9: And I know you had an opportunity to look at that. So my first question is related to a comment that was made earlier by Mr. Reimer about. Let me make sure I've got the right question in front of me.
Speaker 9: So transfer of concessions. And I think Councilman New asked this question. It's my understanding that any concession that would be. Transfer the ownership would be transferred would require our DSB office involvement. Is that correct? Because I know you work directly with our oversight of our DSP office.
Speaker 9: Can you can you respond to that?
Speaker 5: Greenly Diane Durfee with the city attorney's office. We have, as was discussed earlier and Mr. Reamer already discussed, this contract involves both the CDB program on the concession side and then on the construction side, our MWB program and has established goals for felt for both of those aspects of the project.
Speaker 5: The activity is a federal program, as Mr. Bremer identified.
Speaker 3: The MWB as our local program.
Speaker 5: So with respect to your question on transfer of concessions, I think that the concession and I'm not as.
Speaker 12: Familiar with the A.C.T. program as I am with the MWB.
Speaker 5: Program, but my understanding is that they would still have to comply with all the federal requirements.
Speaker 3: Regulations regarding how the ACP programs.
Speaker 5: So nothing is being done in this contract that alters the federal requirements.
Speaker 3: And rules and regulations that have to be followed.
Speaker 9: And same with our BWB.
Speaker 5: And that is true. We added as part.
Speaker 3: Of the contract a compliance plan on the Mwb side for the construction.
Speaker 5: Establish the goals for that, and we have not altered anything in that compliance plan that runs with our current laws on the MWB program.
Speaker 9: Okay. Thank you, Dan Reimer, if you wouldn't mind coming back up. So I want to get back to the issue of concentration of ownership. Someone who currently may already meet that threshold, that 20%. Limit for concentration of ownership.
Speaker 9: If they meet that on A, B or C, are they then allowed to also have a concession in the Great Hall? So are we playing with two different standards for both locations?
Speaker 14: So we may need to call up Patrick Hecht, the chief commercial officer, who's more familiar with how that concentration of ownership would would work under the development agreement.
Speaker 9: Okay. As a practical matter, that will be helpful, because one of my concerns is that we have ongoing changes that happen with how we have regulated the the concessionaires. We've had changing rules, I guess is is the terminology I want to use.
Speaker 9: So can you help clarify the answer to my question?
Speaker 10: Sure. Thank you. Councilman Patrick Hecht, chief commercial officer for the airport. We have a concentration of ownership policy that dictates how much a any one concessionaire can own of our concession program that we have under our control and concourses.
Speaker 8: A-B and C for OVL is going to have a very similar.
Speaker 7: Program, but the two don't have.
Speaker 10: Overlap. So someone has 20% on A, B and C and couldn't necessarily bidder would have to divest in order to bid on A, B, and C, they could actually get 20% of the program in in the Great Hall as well without having to divest in A, B and C.
Speaker 10: So the two programs operate separately from that respect, but they're modeled very similarly so that any one person in Great Hall can't.
Speaker 8: Control, say, 80%.
Speaker 10: Of the Great Hall Project under under for obvious proposal.
Speaker 9: But potentially somebody could control 40% and total at the airport 20% on the. Main terminal and 20% on A, B and C.
Speaker 8: Yeah, but the the main terminal isn't even.
Speaker 10: Remotely close to half of the.
Speaker 4: Concession.
Speaker 10: Space at the airport, something a bit closer, say 20%. So you're talking about 20% of 20% that they could control. So they wouldn't control 40% of entire airport space. They'd still be limited to what would be 20% of the airport space in that case.
Speaker 9: Yeah, I guess I'm talking concessions as opposed to space.
Speaker 10: But I'm in our our programs are built around space, so it's built around square footage.
Speaker 9: Okay. Thank you. And I do have just a couple quick more, if I may. So. Mr. can stay home, if you wouldn't mind coming back up. So it's my understanding that some of our labor unions have been in conversation with you there.
Speaker 9: I don't know that there are actual agreements, but I'm not sure that all of our trades, both labor and non union and nonunion apprenticeship programs, have sort of received the green light permission approvals, whatever the right terminology is that Ferrovial will work with have have your contractor work with all of the apprenticeship programs that exist in the
Speaker 9: city. So can you tell me if this is something that you all are asking your contractors who will be doing the work to be working with our trades? And this is this does not take away from any of our in the DWP programs.
Speaker 9: This, you know, I see this as complimentary. So.
Speaker 16: Thank you for the question, Councilmember. I would calling someone from the BJP that can help us to address this question. With respect to apprenticeship programs. With respect to apprenticeship programs that are sort.
Speaker 9: So what I'm asking is if Ferrovial is committing to. Ask your contractors who will be working on the project to work with the Colorado approved. Apprenticeship programs. And why this is important is because we have a labor shortage of skilled workers in this city with all the construction that's going on and where we can ensure, especially with
Speaker 9: publicly financed projects, which I consider this to be, we should be doing everything we can with all of our trades to. Develop those skills, ensure that folks in our community who are sort of left behind have that opportunity to be raised up.
Speaker 9: And so I'm asking the question of you, because you've selected that team of contractors and subcontractors that will be working on this project.
Speaker 16: Okay. May I ask? My understanding is that. That's correct. But if you can please confirm.
Speaker 12: Good evening, council. I'm Angela Berry Robertson, the director of diversity for Ferrovial. I can say that we've worked with the apprenticeship programs and workforce initiatives for this project, so I can say that we will definitely actively work with the apprenticeship programs as well as not in lieu of and in consortia with the MWB programs that we have
Speaker 12: on the project.
Speaker 9: So any that are not already connected to you all, you you have that open door is what I'm hearing you say. To work directly with them as well.
Speaker 12: Between ourselves as well as our contractors, we would definitely encourage the utilization of apprenticeship programs and understanding the Labor needs as well as initiatives here in this in the city and county. So. Yes.
Speaker 9: Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. My last question is, it's actually for Gisela. Who wouldn't mind coming up? So I know Councilman New as sort of a version of my question, but I'm wondering exactly how DeLay plans to track the spin on this project, especially given that part of the funding for.
Speaker 9: Some of the build out is being included in bond financing that has moved through this council. I want to make sure that we're able to track it in a similar way that we did with the Hotel and Transit Center, even though it may have different funding sources.
Speaker 9: So can you just sort of elaborate on that in a. I mean, you may have already said it and I just didn't hear it in the same way.
Speaker 5: Absolutely. So we'll be tracking the expenditures of this project like we do any other project. We have a number of requirements through accounting standards and the city's fiscal policies, which require us to track the value of any asset we build, regardless of how it's funded.
Speaker 5: So whether it's airport bonds, airport cash reserves or actually funding that the developer brings to the table, much like when the city has developers put in infrastructure that then comes to the city as an asset to maintain. The exact same arrangement exists here and we will make sure that we track every dollar spent on the project.
Speaker 5: We'll have a project controls team can mentioned earlier that will be very much engaged on a regular basis to review all of the invoices that come through the project design and construction phase. We will be paying our portion of the progress payments on a monthly basis.
Speaker 5: A requirement of that is a very stringent report that we placed as a requirement on the developer that they will need to provide to US monthly because we will not make the progress payment until our construction team is assured us on the financial side that the work that the invoice represents has actually been done to the performance
Speaker 5: standards that Dan mentioned earlier. So there's a number of checks throughout that process. Performance standards, construction standards, financial spend, all of that will be reviewed on a monthly basis during the entire four year construction period.
Speaker 9: So is that a city team or does that a combination of city and consultants working with us to.
Speaker 3: A common mission?
Speaker 9: Okay. And then this is just part of this. So. In addressing the issue of change, order or change directives. In the past, there was someone who had served on that committee that was actually the requester of the change orders.
Speaker 9: And I know there were changed recommended changes by the city auditor around that. So can you tell me who the Change Management Committee is made up of that is supposed to look at those change orders or change directives?
Speaker 9: And again, this is important because this is where we begin to eat into the $120 million jersey.
Speaker 5: I agree with your concerns as a CPA and a prior auditor myself. I share that concern and separation of duties. I think all my colleagues at the airport can tell you and probably a pain for them on most days, because I do have that concern.
Speaker 5: So we will have a committee that has no one from the construction side serving on the committee, which includes our internal staff. I respect very much to William and his staff, but they will not be on that committee.
Speaker 5: There will be finance staff from the airport. There will be a representative from the auditor's office. There will be a representative from the Department of Finance within the city. And we will also have some outside experts yet to be identified.
Speaker 5: But to your point, there will be no conflict of interest.
Speaker 9: Okay, great. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilman. Councilwoman can eat your up.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to go back about, oh, I don't know, 20, 30 minutes to clarify something that occurred in the exchange with Councilman Lopez. So I think it was you, Nacho, where he asked about the cause that you mentioned this not a question for you, actually, but you stated that the prevailing wage applied
Speaker 3: and he asked. That covers the concessionaires and almost the whole front row nodded. And you said Yes. So can I get please Dan Durfee or Dan Reamer to clarify what, if any, wage policies apply to the concessionaires at this airport?
Speaker 16: One sec. Sorry. Then I said. I didn't say yes. What I said is, as far as I understand, those salaries would be negotiated between the concessionaires and the employees. The prevailing wage, according to my understanding of the agreement, will be explained by by but would apply to the NC works and on M works.
Speaker 14: Okay. So there are a lot of different workers and there's a lot of different pieces of the project. So what I think we've tried to work through is the application of the prevailing wage ordinance during both the design and construction and the O&M phase.
Speaker 14: And what I have assured the Council and we've worked through the development agreement with the developer is not just agreed. The prevailing wage ordinance in the development agreement clearly applies to the extent it applies during both the design and construction and the onam phase.
Speaker 14: So great hall partners will have workers, they have O&M responsibilities, there will be janitorial contracts, there will be other classifications of workers who are subject to the prevailing wage ordinance. And so prevailing wage will apply to them. Prevailing wage right now does not typically apply to the concession workers themselves.
Speaker 14: That's not a category of worker that is subject to the prevailing wage ordinance. So again, I don't mean to sound too much like a lawyer, but the prevailing wage ordinance will apply through the development agreement to the extent that it applies, but won't cover additional workers beyond what's provided for in the ordinance.
Speaker 3: Okay. And I think that's a really important distinction. So and here's my shorter way of saying it back. If concessionaires do construction work. You know, to build out their space. They will be covered with that wage ordinance. But their servers, their retail workers, the folks who clean their they're they're they're bus people, the service workers who are
Speaker 3: employed in concessions do not have any wage standards at the airport at this time.
Speaker 14: They do not have wage standards. They have market forces. And market forces right now affect wages and are right now in the process of increasing wages at the airport.
Speaker 3: But correct over 34 years, I think we can be guaranteed that market forces will change. And so I want to ask Kevin Abels to come up. I know a lot of my colleagues have been asking a lot of really detailed questions about proposed agreements and what folks liked and what they didn't like.
Speaker 3: I actually am not interested in that so much. I've approved many contracts in this chambers where there were no agreements. What really I'm trying to get at and I still am not quite satisfied with, is understanding this idea of whether or not people are expected to meet and talk.
Speaker 3: And so I just want to ask you very clearly, did you receive any ideas, proposed changes, suggestions or any constructive ideas from Ferrovial or the airport and how the ideas you had proposed might become more acceptable?
Speaker 8: No, we didn't. And we specifically asked for them. We told them that the agreements that we were offering and the ideas we had were but a starting point and that we would really look forward to a constructive conversation.
Speaker 8: But they chose not to give us anything concrete back.
Speaker 3: Thanks, Kim, and I appreciate that. So, Kim, I want to just chat with you a little more. And so I have seen you all meet with concessionaires who have sued you. I've seen you meet with groups of minority contractors who have done press conferences and rallies criticizing the airport.
Speaker 3: I'm imagining a scenario whereby you would say to United, I don't agree with your idea that we shouldn't move, you know, some of this security to to level five. And so therefore, I won't meet with you. I've never seen the airport say because I don't agree with you or because you've criticized me.
Speaker 3: I have no obligation to be in dialog. I've never heard the airport say that. And so here's my question. You're asking us to approve this partner stepping into your shoes. Who else are they allowed not to agree with or to meet with?
Speaker 3: Who else might they say? I don't have to meet with you. You've criticized me. I don't agree with you. I guess I want to understand where the limits are, because we now have one situation where there wasn't. They didn't agree with the first idea.
Speaker 3: There was one in-person meeting, two phone calls, but there was no desire to continue. I guess I want to understand who else would that could that happen to in the course of 34 years and how or why? Or help me understand.
Speaker 3: Are we okay with that when it's not the way that you all do business? I am struggling and I want you to help me.
Speaker 12: So. So. I was not part of any of those conversations. So I can tell you what went down there. What I can tell you is in the last two years, as we have worked with this developer, we have found a group that supports our value system that has ad nauseum held meetings, listened to people, listen to us
Speaker 12: , allowed us to change things. I think this is a very open team of people that we have a great deal of confidence will be a good partner for 34 years. I just can't comment on this specific thing because I have no personal.
Speaker 12: I wasn't there. I just don't have any.
Speaker 3: What if it became a pattern? I mean, is there anything and if they if there was a pattern of them refusing to meet with and I mean, we've all in my six years, I have seen more concessionaires and groups of contractors criticize the airport and criticize the contracting process.
Speaker 3: It's going to happen when they start choosing who's didn't do business with them and who's not. There will be folks who are upset. And I guess I guess I just want to understand, is this what if it became a pattern?
Speaker 12: So what we have to we have the right to terminate for convenience. And that might be, you know, one of the reasons it's since us to that termination. I hope we never get there because I truly do have faith in these guys.
Speaker 12: But we do have outs. We are not we are not stuck for 34 years. That's not what you're doing tonight. You're you're voting on a contract that has lots of out if things do not turn out the way we anticipate them being.
Speaker 3: So I just want to ask one more question in our show, and then I think most of my questions have been answered for tonight. So can you tell me. Yes. Do you believe you have an obligation if you step in and serve as our public airport manager, do you have an obligation to meet with external stakeholders with
Speaker 3: whom you may not agree or who may have criticisms about your company? Do you have that obligation under this contract?
Speaker 16: And I have had that obligation for the last two and a half years in which I have been working in this project.
Speaker 3: Will you meet with Unite here following this meeting, regardless of the outcome?
Speaker 16: We have met with Danica as explained before, the point that you were making with respect to trying to develop or making counterproposals. The core part of their agreement proposed by that association to us was forcing the future concessionaires to have an exclusivity with respect to the session or the choice of those employees that will be working at
Speaker 16: the concessionaires. That was the whole point of that union. So that was something that we could not accept. Secondly is very easy to say that there cannot have a meeting. In a meeting that we are not taking as many meetings as we are requesting and simultaneously having a campaign in the press against our company and simultaneously having
Speaker 16: that union protesting and picketing in the airport against our company. So in order to have meetings, you must have a friendly approach for both sides. And we didn't see that friendly approach from Unite here.
Speaker 3: So you will not meet even after this meeting, regardless of the outcome you will not meet, is that. I just want to make sure I understand.
Speaker 16: We are happy to take meetings in a friendly way, you know, to understand the request of anybody so we can address their concerns and try to reach a common position as simultaneously we are continuously attacked by that party.
Speaker 16: Can be difficult to have a meeting in that context because you are being threat.
Speaker 3: Through the meeting. We know a little bit about having meetings with folks who are mad at you and attack you up here. So that that's a part of what we do every day in the public sector. We take meetings with people who have really harsh things to say about us.
Speaker 3: And if you have this contract, that is what you're signing up for.
Speaker 16: And we have taken those meetings despite those attacks.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Okay. Council members, it is 11 p.m. and we're starting to get down to the nitty gritty. So now we have council managers gone. Councilman Espinosa, you're up and then Councilman New. This is that's interesting. This talk about this conversation or lack thereof with Unite here sort of illustrates one of the core problems with this whole.
Speaker 1: Structure. People go to their representatives on council in the elected government to listen and hopefully affect change and answer the question in that. Well, no, but. So remember that I'm going to come back to that because, you know, it's it's worth saying.
Speaker 1: So the question I have. Let's start with this one. This and you've mentioned that you've been working with them for two years. This RF process predates my time on council. So the wheels were set in motion for ap3 years ago.
Speaker 1: Where were those? The RFP is that you you obtained and you shortlisted and got to ferrovial. Were any of them at this to this magnitude on cost? You know, at the 650 to $770.
Speaker 8: Million range.
Speaker 1: And delivering essentially the same thing, you know, because we have this issue of going from 400 million to 770 million is the top end. What did you see back then that did that mean was there any indication on those prior proposals?
Speaker 12: So maybe it's worth me just taking a second to explain the process we've been through for the last two years. We first put out a request for qualifications. We asked for teams to submit their qualifications. They came to us as entities that had a contractor and equity partners.
Speaker 12: From that RFQ process, we then a short there were, I believe five five that that first applied and we shortlisted to four. We then worked to work independently with each of the teams over the course of nine or ten months.
Speaker 12: We met with them independently. We told them what we expected in terms of the physical plan. We told them what we expected in terms of the agreement we would have to operate it. We specified certain things like the length of term.
Speaker 12: We eventually got to a point where we specified some physical requirements, but we basically let each of these teams develop an independent design and put in an independent proposal to us that had a deal structure that they preferred, a financial structure that they developed.
Speaker 12: So we didn't lay out a requirement necessarily. We then took the proposals and evaluated them. Out of all of that process came our selection of the Ferrovial team to be the best person partner for us to then go to the next phase, which was the pre-development agreement, which was an attempt for us to negotiate exclusively with our
Speaker 12: number one choice to see if we could get to a deal that we could then bring before this council. And that's where we are today with this deal that we have negotiated with Ferrovial all of this time. My point in going through that is this is sort of evolved and the design has been done together.
Speaker 12: The $650 million construction cost is related to a project that we have designed with FERROVIAL over the last six months or nine months. I hope that makes sense.
Speaker 1: Yeah, that does. But what worries me in that process is not seeing. Having not been privy to all the work that you did with all the four that were shortlisted and seeing essentially.
Speaker 8: You know, where they ended up and how you ended up selecting Ferrovial.
Speaker 1: Is, is, is, is sort of concerning because, you know, last year you came to us with a different sort of end game, essentially a much lower cost total project that would have had a much lower cost to two, you know, much lower impact to your bottom.
Speaker 8: Line.
Speaker 1: This and we ended up here and so I just wonder if if there was any information in what was submitted back then that would have given us any indication that this is this is where we would be.
Speaker 8: Where we would end up.
Speaker 12: So let me say we can. My recollection is there was no real cost talked about when we brought the PDA contract to you at that point in time. We so I'm not sure where this 400,000 or 400 million is coming from.
Speaker 12: There was a there was a letter by a proposer that we did not choose that had some numbers in them, but we did not bring you a cost when we brought you the Ferrovial team because we didn't have a design at that point in time that was finalized.
Speaker 12: What we wanted to do during this period, which we have used in the last year, was to design the right project and then price it out. I will say we've had independent review of this price. Stew Williams, who is the program manager, has brought in an outside third party.
Speaker 12: They have sat for hours and hours and hours. They've gone through unit cost and and refined the scope and made sure that this is a tight price and a tight project.
Speaker 1: Why don't we? So, again, you've made a commitment to to calcium and knew that you would do some sort of update. The fact that we are.
Speaker 7: We weren't updated when you were doing the maybe you were. I wasn't here.
Speaker 1: And the fact that it feels like we were not updated during the negotiations about the different models and the different things that were being presented, we weren't.
Speaker 8: Updated about.
Speaker 1: The the order of magnitude that might be in the final. The proposal, as this thing was being developed over the last six months, I mean, we could have done a monthly report or even two quarterly reports that said, look, are the scale of this project is is on the order of magnitude of this.
Speaker 1: But this is we're only 15% designed.
Speaker 8: And we still have all these unknowns.
Speaker 1: The you know, to me. Might be indicative of how transparent you will be going forward with with the.
Speaker 8: With.
Speaker 1: The amount of latitude that we're getting. Can you because of lot in the contract for OVL is required to do a lot of this reporting on a monthly basis in a sort of real time. Could you commit to a sort of written report on the contingency, a written monthly, monthly written report on the contingency status, along with
Speaker 1: a quarterly report at Committee on the Status of the Contingency and Construction Progress.
Speaker 12: A happy to do that. I do want to clarify two things you just said, though. So last year when we brought forth the contract to negotiate with Ferrovial and the PDA, we showed you in the in the in the business committee at that time that the other proposers designs, we have not hidden that from anyone that's been
Speaker 12: that's been out there for anyone to look at. I would also say that what we've been doing in the last nine months is negotiation. And so we have not been sharing this information because it is a negotiation. It is confidential.
Speaker 12: We have allowed various sources to participate after signing a non-disclosure agreement, but we really have had this under wraps for a very good reason, and that is so that we could negotiate the best deal for us going forward after today.
Speaker 12: Yes, everything is public. Yes. We're happy to give you a monthly report. We're happy to go to the committee and brief you on a regular basis. We'd be more than happy to do that.
Speaker 1: What's frustrating there is, is even members of council after the contract was was in our position, it was in our wheelhouse for consideration. Members of council asked for essentially the let you not issue enter into the non-disclosure agreement to sort of review everything that was reviewed that was never offered, you know.
Speaker 12: So I'm not sure what was offered, you know, in the reading room we had.
Speaker 1: You had everything.
Speaker 12: We had extraction. We had financial models.
Speaker 1: Yeah, but people were doing other people in the city were reviewing these things over the course of those nine months that you were doing and negotiating. And no member of council was and no member of council will be part of the committee, as far as I know, unless you're going to commit to it right now that a
Speaker 1: member of council will be part of the committee going forward.
Speaker 12: We have had to, I believe both council member Herndon was and Councilwoman Ortega have been serving on the executive committee for this project. And we we will agree to go forward with that same group.
Speaker 1: Wow. Why don't we have an updated maybe. Maybe I'm in the wrong committee to have gotten that update. So then one last question on sort of related, Debbie Ortega. I mean, Councilwoman Ortega had a.
Speaker 7: Question.
Speaker 1: In writing that said, I am reading the contract. Am I reading the contract correctly? That Den will pay ferrovial $1.8 billion.
Speaker 7: Over the life of the agreement, plus 20% of the.
Speaker 1: Concession.
Speaker 7: Revenue generated by the Great Hall.
Speaker 1: The answer was yes. The airport will pay $1.8 billion over the life of the development agreement. Airport payments were split. Well, then there's detail on the airport payment. The a member of the administration just this morning in response to a similar question, said the developer takes all the risk for the price of the schedule and construction.
Speaker 1: The airport pays back the developers $380 million investment for it at a return of 4.8. Is that. Is that summary, get us to $3.8 million. Is that accurate portrayal?
Speaker 12: Does that get us to the 3.8 million billion.
Speaker 1: Three $1.8 billion. So 380 million at 4.8%.
Speaker 12: So the 1.8 million is the construction cost. It includes our contingency. It includes 30 years of operating repayment, of financing, which is the 4.8% return, plus us reimbursing them for operations and maintenance. That is what is in the $1.8 billion contract.
Speaker 8: Can you elaborate on maybe.
Speaker 1: Where the number is, 380 million and a return of 4.8 came from is a response to.
Speaker 12: The developers investing $378 million. I think we have rounded that up to the three eight.
Speaker 1: Okay.
Speaker 12: That's a combination of equity and debt.
Speaker 1: Okay. I just take it that the rest of that will go into comment, but it just seemed to imply that that was essentially it was sort of minimizing the cost of this when instead we are proving if we approve, this is a $1.8 billion payback.
Speaker 12: That is the contract that's before you tonight.
Speaker 1: Okay. Thank you. No further question. All right. Thank you. Councilman Espinosa, California.
Speaker 13: Real quick, Gisela. Please. Let's go over some numbers real quick. Okay. If you split this the split contract into the construction piece and the concession fees. Okay. And we're looking at our contribution of, say, 600 million and the partnership put in 170 million for the seven services, assuming we spend all the contingency.
Speaker 13: Okay. And that's so our contribution is about that 78%. You know, on a on a non P3 contract, what would that percent be? 100%?
Speaker 5: It would be 100% unless it's funded partially by the FAA via grant or another granting agency.
Speaker 13: So strictly from a financial viewpoint, that's the vantage of the P3 agreement that we're actually spending less on the construction than we normally would in a street construction contract.
Speaker 5: That's correct. That allows us to use our resources in other projects.
Speaker 13: Of a concession agreement where, you know, it looks to me, you know, the numbers we've been working with, the profitability is coming out of that concession agreement. And so and FERROVIAL has value. It looks like what what I've been told is, you know, we're on the existing concession agreement.
Speaker 13: We're getting about a dollar $0.41 per square foot.
Speaker 5: In the Great Hall concessions. That's correct.
Speaker 13: And Froebel is going to be able to generate $3.34 about, you know, two times.
Speaker 5: What, approximately.
Speaker 13: Less so. And we're going to get 80% of that increase in the revenue that they're going to generate through their rental arrangement.
Speaker 5: Yes, 80% comes to the airport.
Speaker 13: So in a normal. And in what kind of arrangement is there with the concessionaires on the concourse? Is it what percentage do we give there?
Speaker 5: So the percentage of the sales that the concessionaires generate is approximately the same collected by the airport versus the developer. The difference is the airport retains 100% of the percentage that we get from the concessions in the concourses, and we receive 80%.
Speaker 5: In the case of the Great Hall via the current arrangement under the development agreement, so approximately 20%.
Speaker 13: Okay. So just from an existing standpoint, we're going to earn more money from the concession agreement through the Great Hall. It looks like to me and you're estimating about $100 million profit on this whole project. And, you know, which I think is typical CFO, very conservative.
Speaker 13: And I think it's going to be a lot more than that, but it's going to be I want to assure the public this is a very profitable arrangement that we're entering into with this great hall. So correct.
Speaker 5: That's correct. So we are able to generate revenues that flows into the top of our waterfall, which gives us additional capacity not only to cover our current debt obligations, but also to reinvest in our facilities. And then we make the payments at the lower end of our waterfall or the way our funds flow through, which again gives
Speaker 5: us the flexibility to make sure that we can use our resources where best deployed. But yes, we do anticipate currently, based on the base financial model, that we will have additional funds that will be generated as a result of this project.
Speaker 5: We will then reinvest in the remaining programs, which includes gate expansions for our airlines, widening of Penn Boulevard and other projects that will help make the customer experience at the airport much better. All right.
Speaker 13: Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman and Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 10: I know maybe the third time's the charm. You know, sometimes you're in the game and you're watching your teammates strike out, but it's your turn up. So I'm going to give it one more try. Ferrovial. The whole thing with Unite here.
Speaker 10: It feels like a schoolyard fight. It's where somebody says something and the other person gets hurt. And that's it. You won't talk anymore. And I'm aware of the aggressive campaign that Unite here has waged against your company in an attempt to stimulate negotiation.
Speaker 10: Yeah. I'd be angry, too. It got pretty tough. The problem that I'm struggling with. Is that Mr. Ables and the management of of. That union represents several hundred people. That have legitimate concerns. Over their future employment. So I'm going to ask.
Speaker 10: Is there any way? That you. Recognize that sometimes things get heated. And that you can agree. To reopen. Communication. You're an open spirit to try to hear their concerns at a new level. Or if you just refuse to talk.
Speaker 16: We are happy to open any channel of communication and understand their requests and try to address them. That's why you have our commitment for that, for communication, collaboration and trying to understand and address the legitimate needs of every stakeholder in this community.
Speaker 10: Including you. I appreciate that. I feel like that's some degree of movement. But I want to be real clear, because I think it's important. Would you say? Commit to. Six meetings, one a month. Six one hour meetings one a month with unite here with an open spirit.
Speaker 10: Putting that. Difficult time. Behind again. If it were just one person involved. I probably wouldn't be as concerned. But it's a few, several hundred families. And while I understand there's processes, I mean, I look at the job market and I figure it's going to be a lot of jobs.
Speaker 10: But I'm also looking at as counsel McNeil said you as the face. If not at the airport of the Great Hall of somewhere. And I'm getting lost in the in the in the number of 10 to 20% of the concessions in the airport, depending on when we build out the the concourses.
Speaker 10: So yeah, six meetings, one a month, one hour in person sitting down with.
Speaker 16: Mr. Abels you have our commitment for that council member and I understand your query.
Speaker 10: Thank you very much for that. That's all, Mr. President.
Speaker 11: Thank you, Councilman Cashman. Councilwoman Ortega, I'm not sure we've heard from Councilman Herndon yet. Are you? That's fine. Has been heard in.
Speaker 7: Kim Are we asking Ferrovial to do our current concessions that we have at the airport? Do they require worker retention with the concessions?
Speaker 12: No.
Speaker 7: So what the current policy is right now at the admin, we're asking for over all to do the exact same thing.
Speaker 12: Yeah. In fact, we were we were very careful to do pass through of all the requirements that you have given us. We have passed all of those through to Ferrovial.
Speaker 7: So Unite here is trying to get ferrovial to do above and beyond what every concessionaire on A, B, or C concourse doesn't do right now.
Speaker 12: So cancer. I haven't been in those meetings. Understand? Tell you what, you might hear us.
Speaker 7: Asking, but that is certainly mine. So if there if there's an issue, why wait? I'm going in the comments. I'm done. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I, i respect the ability to catch yourself. Councilman. All right. Councilman Ortega.
Speaker 9: Okay, this is my final question. And it's you know, I've raised a lot of questions about the risk to DIA, and I would like to know what contingency plan the airport has if the Great Hall does not operate as designed or simulated.
Speaker 9: And so what I want I'm aware that we have step in rights for the contract, but. I want to know that we actually have a step in ready plan if you know the wheels fall off the bus and we have to step in.
Speaker 9: Do we have the wherewithal, staffing expertize to to be able to do that? At whatever stage we happen to be in, whether it's, you know, during construction, during the operations, do we actually have a real plan that we can just step in and do that job?
Speaker 12: So I'm to let the city attorney talk about, you know, our rights in terms of the contract. We are not sitting with 20 plans in the drawer that we can just pull out. But things like this don't happen overnight.
Speaker 12: If we see a trend that something is happening, we're going to go put a plan together. That's what we do.
Speaker 9: So so Kim, let me just address that briefly, because we rely on certain aspects within this contract to. We rely on self-reporting. And if things are happening and they're not reported, how do we know what's going on?
Speaker 12: I'm not sure we're looking each other. Maybe you could ask that again. We're not really understanding.
Speaker 9: Okay. So if there are, I don't know, breaches of the contract or we're not meeting the I don't know the goals of what is anticipated to be collected in terms of revenues or you know, I'm just making some of this up, but under the management of these concessions or oversight.
Speaker 9: We rely on self-reporting from this contractor. From the from the developer. But if those reports, those self reports are not being forwarded, we were not aware of certain things going on. That's what triggers any of the step in rights if there are certain things that are not.
Speaker 9: Reconcilable. Right. So my question gets back to what contingency plan do we have that? You know, in place to be able to step in and take control. I mean, I get we have step in rights, but what is what plan do we have?
Speaker 9: Do we have the expertize in staffing and in. You know. Just the skill sets to be able to keep this we'll keep this bus rolling if some of the wheels do fall off.
Speaker 14: So I just I want to be clear about the manner in which the wheels may fall off. So first, the airport believes that they have a plan that will work and can be implemented. The developer's responsibility with respect to the level six improvements is simply to design and construct those improvements.
Speaker 14: And they walk away from those areas outside of any warranty work. So if future changes are required, particularly to level six, the ticket lobbies, the security screening checkpoint, the airline offices, and those improvements on level six, public circulation curb that all remains within the discretion and exclusive authority of the airport to bring another contract to develop it
Speaker 14: through the AIM team to engage in planning necessary to put forward a construction contract and a plan that would be presented to this body. That is not a matter of step in rights. That is a that is a question about the termination of the developer's responsibilities.
Speaker 14: So with respect to level six improvements, their responsibility will terminate upon substantial completion and the expiration of any warranty work. So if the wheels come off of that bus, then the airport would deal with that through a separate contract with.
Speaker 9: So we're looking at them exclusively then. Is what. What I hear you saying in terms of the construction of the build out of level six. From the construction of the build out of the concession area so far.
Speaker 14: Correct. So with respect to level five and the island that the developer will be responsible for, they will be responsible for both designing and constructing those commercial areas, as well as managing those commercial areas during the operating period of the agreement.
Speaker 14: If there are shortfalls in revenue, the development agreement provides mechanisms by which the airport and the airport's consultants can review the plans and the documents and that concession development management plan to try and establish why the developer is not making the revenue that they had forecast.
Speaker 14: So there are there are provisions for both minor shortfalls and material shortfalls, and the airport's responsibilities obviously increase in the event of a material shortfall. So if the wheels come off the bus in the sense that developer is not performing and the sales are not what what have been anticipated, and that is attributable to acts or omissions
Speaker 14: on the part of the developer, then we know precisely what will happen. It will be a combination of the airport and its consultants that will review the plans and develop a remedial plan to try and get those revenues back up to where they should be.
Speaker 14: It is also important to note that the Concession Development and management plan is intended to be a living document. It's already been mentioned here, but with respect to brands and brand mix and and performance and what's working, the airport and the developer will have that opportunity on a on a two year basis every two years that CDP
Speaker 14: document will be updated and that will be an opportunity to review maybe, maybe not terrible deficiencies, but sort of minor tweaks that may need to be made in the program in order to make sure that it's achieving its maximum potential.
Speaker 9: So if for whatever reason. We've got legitimate reasons to terminate the contract because of all the out clauses that are in it. After that point, if there is some new entity brought in, does that reengage council in the process?
Speaker 9: Because technically this deal would be null and void at that point, correct?
Speaker 14: Well, there are a couple of different termination provisions. We've already talked about termination for convenience. So that's the airport's option to terminate at any time for any reason. And there is a formula for calculating what would be owed to the developer in the event of termination for convenience.
Speaker 14: If it's termination in the event of a default, then there is a separate formula that would be established for for termination. But the short answer to your question is it if the agreement if the development agreement is terminated.
Speaker 14: Then the airport has every right to do whatever it wants, whether that's to take on the management of the program itself or to find a master concessionaire, to find a new developer, to find somebody who would who would satisfy the need, whatever it may be at the time that the development agreement terminates.
Speaker 3: Okay.
Speaker 12: Can I just add one thing? Sorry. I just wanted Patrick to come up. We obviously do have the talent and the ability in-house to run a concession program. And so, Patrick, maybe you could talk about stepping in if we had to.
Speaker 11: So, Councilman, I think to Dan's.
Speaker 10: Point, there's a number of different ways. If we got to a point where Ferrovial is no longer involved in not running the program for us, that we could go you could certainly replace Ferrovial just with someone else who is very similar to Ferrovial.
Speaker 10: But I think in the case where from a contingency perspective, how we would actually step in, we run 150,000 square feet of concessions on the concourses. Now in this contract, we have required for OVL to have a lot of things that look and feel a lot like us.
Speaker 10: The concentration of ownership we talked about PDC program as a number of things were required.
Speaker 7: And I think very importantly, a contract that has a number of provisions that are exactly like our provisions in our contracts that have to.
Speaker 8: Be in their contract with their concessionaire. So if we take it over, it is now essentially.
Speaker 7: One of our contracts and we have staff because we do that on the concourses that can now take it over. Would I maybe need more staff potentially to run this program now as part of it? But in all ways, it's.
Speaker 10: Going to look and feel a lot like what we do today. So I feel very confident that we could take over and run this program because it's very similar to how we actually operate in the world today. Okay.
Speaker 9: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Yeah, thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilman Espinosa. Two tiny one, tiny one. One ones are the single standard de. The model. The mountain. The model with the single standard de. Does does that. What was mentioned in the comments was at 28, you require it requires 28 lanes.
Speaker 1: Is that true?
Speaker 12: So. So we. I'm not sure exactly how to answer this. We're designing a facility that has 32 automatic screening lanes. They are they have a lot more throughput, almost twice as much as our existing checkpoints. Do we believe that with the 32 lanes, we can get to about a 30% increase in capacity over what we have in
Speaker 12: our terminal today? It's not based on a given day.
Speaker 1: So when you model it, you don't model for a typical day and model for sort of different conditions.
Speaker 12: And so when they do a simulation, they do simulations for different conditions, right? Peak peak hour of an average day, things like that. So they model all of those elements.
Speaker 1: So how many lanes are needed on a typical day?
Speaker 12: I wish there was a typical day. That's the problem with this question. It isn't a typical thing. We don't designed to a typical day. We designed to a peak hour of an average day.
Speaker 1: And so how many lanes in a peak hour on an average day.
Speaker 12: So to get a 30% increase in the capacity of the terminal, you need 32 lanes, which is what we're putting in, 34 lanes, I'm sorry, 34 lanes.
Speaker 1: On an average day at your peak.
Speaker 12: Our peak hour. Your average day.
Speaker 8: Yeah.
Speaker 1: Sorry that got they got to five.
Speaker 12: And each day of a peak month.
Speaker 8: So my concern is.
Speaker 10: I'm looking based on.
Speaker 1: A lot of the conversation. I'm looking for a commitment from built in which always does it and ferrovial who's new to this game to work with the airlines. It sounded today or in our earlier conversations that, you know, there are concerns that we're close to resolution.
Speaker 1: Since you have 70% of the design to still complete, can both Dan and Ferrovial agree to absorb the changes needed to address the concerns that have been raised thus far with Arrow by the airlines?
Speaker 12: So we're continuing to try and get to a place where we understand the plan and how it works. We've done simulations. We are looking at these relievers, but there isn't. There is nothing that I can stand here today and say we could invest in and that would solve the problem.
Speaker 12: We are still in a study phase. So I can't commit to you that we are that any of these elements are going to be built. We're just not there yet. What I will commit to you is we have spent the last two weeks working very closely with United.
Speaker 12: We will continue to work with United. It's really important for us that they agree with us that we're building the right thing and that this is successful for them. We will get to that point. I can't tell you, though, what the answer is to get us there, whether it is changing the design or building something else or
Speaker 12: just doing 20 more simulations so that we all agree. We've tested all of the possibilities and we feel comfortable in it. And as I said earlier, that the ticket lobbies are going to open before the security screening checkpoint.
Speaker 12: So we have it we have an opportunity there to test it, really to make sure it works.
Speaker 1: So that's your that's the track record. I mean, we obviously care very deeply about United as the given the number of gates that they have. And I assume Ferrovial is also very much aware that the traffic that goes through that the main terminal is largely driven by United in their success here.
Speaker 1: Can I hear the same comments from Ferrovial because that has been the concern today.
Speaker 12: So just keep in mind, we will contain ownership and operation of the ticket lobby. All they are doing is building out what we are asking them to build. They really don't have a dog in this fight.
Speaker 1: So you're going to continue to listen and capture these needs. Okay. All right. Think they don't have any more questions? Thank you, Councilman Espinosa. Most of my questions. It's my turn and most of my questions were answered. I have some very specific questions for you, Kim Who is actually the dad PM on this?
Speaker 1: Williams Mr. WILLIAMS Great. Who is the security consultant on the project?
Speaker 12: Who is the security?
Speaker 1: So when you, when you, when you start looking at the security lines and things like that, not that TSA, but are you do you have a consultant that you're working with to for the feel of the rooms, the you know, the esthetics of the location?
Speaker 1: Good evening.
Speaker 10: Stu Williams.
Speaker 8: Senior vice president of special programs in the Great Hall. So, Councilman, to answer your question.
Speaker 1: On the Ferrovial design.
Speaker 10: Team, they have a company that.
Speaker 8: Is done all the modeling and has done additional modeling.
Speaker 10: As we've been working with United to try different scenarios.
Speaker 4: To come up with this. So they do.
Speaker 10: Modeling of both ticket.
Speaker 1: And security lines nationwide. You answer it. Thank you. That's what I want to know. We didn't get to that. And I wanted to make sure. And so last question is around equity partners. And so, Natalie, I think I'm going to ask you this.
Speaker 1: So, I mean, we've been asking questions for 2 hours and we really haven't got into the equity partners. And I really want to answer I want you to answer this question of the equity partner Saunders and Magic Johnson Company.
Speaker 1: What kind of role will they have play in shaping the airport? Are they silent partners or they just investors? Obviously, Saunders is doing construction as well, but what kind of role will they have?
Speaker 16: Thank you for that question, Mr. President. We have a set of hold this agreement executed among federal airports, GRC and Sounders, and that agreement is confirm that we retain 80% of the equity and 20% is owned by a baseball owned by GRC.
Speaker 16: And Sounders GRC has 95% of that vehicle and 5% is owned by Sounders because of the agreements that we have as part of that sort of hold this agreement, Sounders FC through that they call, we have a number of rights in the corporate in the future corporate governance of the SPV that will be the developer signing the
Speaker 16: the concession agreement. That is.
Speaker 1: Right. So what I'm trying to get to the crux of it is Sounders a local company? Yes. Well, they. And I'm assuming this is. Yes, but will they have the right to get their subs? Get their folks connected who are connected here in Denver?
Speaker 1: Make sure they're employed? Are they they're okay to do that?
Speaker 16: Sanders is also is not only part of the developer, he's also part of the DJT that's design and build joint venture. Get that so they can hire.
Speaker 1: They can either subs down.
Speaker 16: Joint venture is owned 70 70% by federal agreement and 30% by Sanders because of the algorithms that they have among the two companies. I'm sure that Sanders will be heavily involved in the future development of the program. That's why that was the most important reason why more than two years ago we decided to work with then and
Speaker 16: they decided to work with us.
Speaker 1: Will Magic Johnson's company be able to with concessions and folks like that? You know, I want to see will they be able to have influence over the concession individuals that we bring on specifically with AC DC.
Speaker 16: That's our intention and commitment. And I would ask you to, you know, to confirm that because we have.
Speaker 1: Great.
Speaker 8: Thank you, Councilman. Jim Reynolds, managing partner.
Speaker 6: With Johnson Loop Capital. We have approximately.
Speaker 8: 19% of the equity asanas as 1% of Rossville.
Speaker 6: Has 80%.
Speaker 8: I think my partner.
Speaker 6: Magic Johnson came and addressed this body around our commitment to Mwb and HDB at the airport and in the city. And we expect to have a very prominent and active role and working with, selecting, speaking to and encouraging the growth of Mwb businesses here in Denver.
Speaker 6: It's our view that just as this will be an absolute showcase.
Speaker 8: For the Denver International Airport.
Speaker 6: We expect that for Mwb participation, it will match that same standard.
Speaker 1: Great. And specifically, the folks in the community want to know. Access for black businesses. Access for Latino businesses. Access for female women owned businesses.
Speaker 8: Well, it's not lost on me that nine nine out of your 13.
Speaker 6: Members are minorities and women. And in my conversations with the mayor, he made it very clear that this is one of the most important issues on his plate. And we absolutely agreed that it is one of the most important issues on ours.
Speaker 6: I had an opportunity to speak to maybe a couple hundred folks that either were concessionaires wanted to be concessionaires, wanted to grow their concessions.
Speaker 8: I know my partner, Magic Johnson came and also spoke. I know several of the council people were there.
Speaker 6: With also groups that wanted to be.
Speaker 8: Concessionaires.
Speaker 6: And so we have been very.
Speaker 8: Active in that role. Magic himself also owns concessions at airports and has built them. As you know, I'm an investment banker and has built businesses. We also are both mwb businesses that both started our businesses from scratch and built them to pretty substantial businesses today.
Speaker 8: So we understand how is done. We understand the commitment. We also understand that the biggest impact on the city of Denver is going to be growing those businesses here in Denver. It's not our expectation that you will see a lot of mwb come from outside of Denver, although you may see some.
Speaker 6: It's our expectation that the growth will come from right here, from every forum that we've given.
Speaker 8: And there have been several. The appetite and the energy around the minority and women owned businesses around this project has been about the highest I've ever seen, and the focus and the commitment from them is here. So I think you'll see an amazing result from from this project and our participation.
Speaker 1: Mr.. REYNOLDS Thank you. You answered my question. Thank you. All right. The public hearing is now closed. Comments by members of council. Councilman Herndon.
Speaker 7: Yes. Okay. So don't get too excited because this is the easy part. Thank you, Mr. President. I need to offer a technical amendment to this resolution so I move that Council Resolution 820 to be amended in the following particulars.
Speaker 7: On page one, line 18 Strike City Clerk's Filing number 201735867. And Replace with City Clerk's Filing number 2017-0375.
Speaker 1: It has been moved and second it. Tell us what happened. You want explain that.
Speaker 7: Yes. Thank you, Mr. President. The purpose of this amendment is to correct the clerk's filing number and to fix a typographical error in the development agreement.
Speaker 1: Okay, great. Other members of council. Can we correct this without going into comments or.
Speaker 8: Is that right?
Speaker 9: Um, I have a question about this because I think it was more than just one typographical error.
Speaker 1: Councilwoman. Well, other folks have questions on this. Okay, let's do. I'm going after them. Councilman Cashman. No question. FLYNN okay. LOPEZ No, not on this. Uh, Councilman Gilmore.
Speaker 12: President Brooks, I have a comment I need to make.
Speaker 8: Okay. Go ahead.
Speaker 12: Go ahead. All right. I will be abstaining on voting on this due to my.
Speaker 3: Brother in.
Speaker 12: Law having an interest in the Great Hall Project. Thank you, President Brooks.
Speaker 1: Thank you. And thanks for sitting through this public hearing. Okay, let's see. Council. Councilwoman Canete. Councilman Ortega.
Speaker 9: Okay. So I'd like to ask you, if you wouldn't mind coming up, because it's my understanding it was a result of your review and finding some of the issues that resulted in this change, this amendment. So will you just clarify that it is more than just a typo?
Speaker 5: There were a handful of typographical errors that were found in our review that were cleaned up as a result of discussions between myself and Dan Laycock. Yes.
Speaker 9: But. It's my recollection from our discussion that involved a little more than just typographical.
Speaker 5: I'm going to defer to Mr. Remer, if there was one there change that was made with respect to the last section in the contract regarding the delegation.
Speaker 14: There were maybe two changes in the amendment that are. More than typographical errors. One has to do with the proper articulation of the nondiscrimination requirement to make sure that it it it accurately captures the the the direction that the city is moving with respect to gender variance and gender expression.
Speaker 14: So that may or may not, depending upon your point of view, be a typographical error. And the other change that borders on substantive or materiality is a request to simply delete a provision about council's delegation, something that is already covered within the Denver Revised Municipal Code.
Speaker 14: And it was something that we was put into the development agreement to add clarity and turned out to increase confusion. And so we've struck that provision. I think they could generally be within the realm of typos, but that I understand that's a subject of discussion.
Speaker 9: But I think that is. I appreciate you explaining that because the last two items clearly explain that it's more than just typographical errors in in wording that is in the contract. So I think it was just important for my colleagues to hear that.
Speaker 9: Thank you.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilman do. Councilman Herndon, I think. Okay, it's been moved. And second, it we're voting on the amendments. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 5: Herndon. The freshman carnage. Lopez. I knew Ortega. Sussman. Did you say no? I like black eye. Clark, I. Espinosa, I. Flynn. I feel more.
Speaker 12: Than.
Speaker 5: Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I police force following announced results.
Speaker 5: 12 one abstention.
Speaker 1: All right. 12 eyes, one abstention. The amendment passes. Councilman Espinosa, we need you to make a motion to adopt an amendment amended. Sir. Bill number I. I move that we. Eight 2230 a move the council adopted Resolution 822 as amended.
Speaker 1: It's been moved and seconded. All right. Now we are commenting on this bill as amended. Councilman Herndon.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. And I know what you all are sitting there thinking at almost midnight. That was a great video Councilman Herndon showed at the beginning of this council meeting. You know, so everyone has experience with the airport, but mine is pretty substantial.
Speaker 7: I represented the airport for four years and I worked at the airport for for two with United Airlines. So I know the airport extensively. I could tell you a bunch of boring facts that would be great at trivia.
Speaker 7: If you're wondering about the spinning fans as you drive through from the Great Hall to the different terminals, we have 5280. In case you're wondering, because we're 50 to 80 mile high. So I've been at the airport and I think about how good of the how important of the project this is what?
Speaker 7: Kills organizations is complacency. The belief that you don't need to improve and that you need to continue to find ways to better yourself. And I applaud the airport and the team that we've had over the two decades that the airport has been around, because we have always sought ways to better our airport.
Speaker 7: And the amazing thing about this is that we have a huge reason why we cannot be complacent when it comes to the Great Hall Project. And that's my first reason why we need support. This is safety and security.
Speaker 7: And you cannot overstate that the vulnerabilities that we have with our current configuration need to be immediately addressed. And that is the main reason why this should move forward just from a safety and security standpoint. I think of many days that I've walked around that airport and I just stand on level six as a veteran and look
Speaker 7: around and thinking we have some challenges that need to be addressed. And shortly after getting elected to represent the airport in District 11, sitting down with Kim as she explained her vision for how this needs to move forward, it was very refreshing.
Speaker 7: So safety and security is, number one, why we need to move forward with this project. Number two is modernization. We have a 1990s configuration and a 2017 and beyond airport. It just doesn't fit. And there's not a lot of minimal things that you can do to fix that.
Speaker 7: I thought a great slide that came out in committee was when Dan showed the other airports that are investing billions of dollars in infrastructure. Los Angeles, 14 billion. San Francisco, 6 billion. LaGuardia, 8 billion. Billions of dollars in their infrastructure because we need to improve that.
Speaker 7: The airlines have given back 150,000 feet of ticketing space, 15% that they have given back to the airport because they don't need anymore. You see that when you are walking on level six, all of this empty ticketing space.
Speaker 7: What are we going to do with that? We have to modernize. Kansas City, where I'm from, is having a conversation right now about creating a one main terminal. And I remember being in Kansas City. I was either reading about us talking about on TV.
Speaker 7: They were talking about the pros and cons and the con was not to do it. They said, We don't want to be Denver because you have this idea when you come out to level six and you look down and this is my third reason why this is important for efficiency and improvement, because when we take TSA and
Speaker 7: move them up to level six, we're not using the same technology that we're going to have right now. We're using state of the art. We will be the first airport to use this technology in this country. As Kim was talking about working with the TSA to make sure that this works.
Speaker 7: Had the pleasure of traveling overseas to Europe to see how modern it is, how efficient it is, the throughput we will move people through quicker. So from an improvement and efficiency standpoint, that's why this is so important. Airports create experiences.
Speaker 7: It's more than just people getting on a plane and traveling. We are competing globally with airports. The Houston's the LA's. They're not our competitors. We are going against Munich. We are going against Incheon. We are going because those international airports, because that's who we want to be.
Speaker 7: The world class airport. If you think about Skytrax and if you're not familiar with Skytrax, that is the standard when it comes to airlines and airports, when it comes to ratings. If you think about the top ten airports in the world, none of them are in the United States of America.
Speaker 7: If you think about five star airports and none of them are in the United States or in this country. But when Skytrax did the 2017 top airports, one I want to congratulate then because they were fourth when it came to regional airports.
Speaker 7: But number nine of the best airports in the world was London Heathrow. Guess who runs a terminal at London Heathrow? Ferrovial. If you want to be the best, you hire the best privately. Now, let me quickly talk about some of the reasons, if you will.
Speaker 7: This is a great deal. But if you're striving for perfect, we're not going to get there. Do not let perfect be the enemy of great. And if you look sure, there are things you can find wrong with this.
Speaker 7: Why is it 30 years? I think he's like, I have a great answer for why, for that time period, this council in 2012 approved a ten year contract for L.A. and also threw down 2012. This council will not weigh in on that.
Speaker 7: The next council is not going to weigh in on that. So we have already made decisions that future councils aren't going to be invested in. We don't choose every retail right now. Provenzano The seven year contract. 40 kiosks right now in our airport.
Speaker 7: This council has never weighed in on it. So the implication that we always make decisions is not accurate. But if we are going to give away that ability, we have hired a partner who knows how to run and manage airports, and their experience is a testament to that.
Speaker 7: And the last point I will say is this. The concessions. Why would we ask a ferrovial to do what we don't ask of A, B and C concourse? If you enter with all due respect to the unite here, what they are asked are they are trying to do is change policy.
Speaker 7: That is our job. Sit down with council members and push for a new policy with concessions that does that. Let's have that conversation. But to make Ferrovial do that and actually not ferrovial future concessionaires, because as they said, we're not going to run them, but we're going to hire companies to do that.
Speaker 7: Why would they do that? Why would we create that double standard where it's one standard on the main car, on the Great Hall and not on A, B and C. But that's a good conversation to have. We have had it.
Speaker 7: Previous councils have talked to us about it because I remember those conversations and briefings from David Rodwell. So that's why to me that doesn't make sense. Yes. Sit down and have a conversation with them. And I appreciate you doing that.
Speaker 7: But if you reach a fundamental disagreement. I'm not sure how you go forward with that. But I appreciate you having those meetings and explaining why this is why you're choosing not to do that. So thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 7: I'm a huge supporter of this. I would urge my colleagues to do so for the reasons that I noted. And I look forward to voting, hopefully before 1:00. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. We all hope to do that. Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. And I only wish I could be as in as energetic as Councilman Herndon just was, but I'm a little more tired than he is. Last week I met here in this room with students from our sister city in France, the city of Brest, which is a very old city in northwest France on the
Speaker 3: Atlantic Ocean. And we talked about the similarities and differences between Denver and Brest brass. Entire history has been formed by the fact that it's on the Atlantic Ocean. It's a port. It's a naval city. And we talked about what it means to be a landlocked city like Denver in the center of a continent.
Speaker 3: And how does Denver connect to the world? So a century ago, it was railroads and later interstate highways connected us. But it was our visionary mayor, Federico Pena, who asked Denver eight to imagine a great city by investing in our city and in a new airport.
Speaker 3: I'm a Denver native and I grew up in southeast Denver near Monaco. So for a lot of my life, when we went to the airport, we left, I don't know, an hour before our plane left, drove down Monaco, jumped out of the car, random airplane.
Speaker 3: I thought it was great. I didn't understand why we needed a new airport. But it didn't take long for me or the critics to see that Mayor Pena was right. Our new world class airport put Denver on the map and it connected us to the world.
Speaker 3: It invigorated our economy. And according to an article in the Kansas City Star, DIA is the linchpin of Colorado's tradition to a global 21st century economy flush with high paying jobs. The airport is our port. After 22 years, Denver remains a world class airport, but the world is changing.
Speaker 3: It is much more connected. Airports are different today. Just as Councilman Herman Herndon pointed out, retail is changing and airports are more than just places that you pass through. They're becoming places that you want to be with movies, bowling, beer, gardens, and so much more.
Speaker 3: Investment in infrastructure pays off, and it's important to maintain and update our airport to keep it fresh so that airlines and passengers want to fly to and through Denver. Like Mayor Pena, our airport leadership is visionary and is anticipating the future and planning for increased security and for 80 million passengers just to go over what we've been
Speaker 3: going over for 3 hours. First and foremost, security is the driving force of this project. But there's really two parts of it. And I have explained this in phone calls and emails to constituents who have contacted me, but there is the remodeling of the terminal, and I explain it as a 66, $650 million gutting of your house
Speaker 3: . You're redoing your bathrooms, your floors, your walls, your stairs, your elevators. You're redoing it all. And most importantly, we're moving and redesigning security to increase. Safety. As we've already said, Great Hall Partners will manage the entire project and guarantee the $650 million price tag and a completion date.
Speaker 3: The risk is theirs, not ours. The local construction company, Saunders, who will hire local subcontractors, will build the project. They are honoring prevailing wage, minority and women owned business contractors. Trade unions are in support. We talked about the professional development opportunities, which I think are really terrific and also any future changes, as Councilman Herndon pointed out, to
Speaker 3: any policies that we might make about minimum wage or any labor agreements would apply to this contract. In addition to this. The airport is also doing other capital improvement projects. And when Councilman Herndon just listed how much all the other airports are investing, we're investing more than the 1.8 billion.
Speaker 3: I think it's three and a half billion because we're we're adding 26 new gates. We're widening Pena Boulevard, major runway maintenance, name maintenance, redesigning baggage systems. Lastly, the other part of the contract is for the Great Hall Partners to manage and maintain the concessions.
Speaker 3: We've we've already talked about it. They're motivated to to succeed. They only make money if it succeeds. So what's best for them is also best for us. Lastly, I know you all have met with us so many times and have answered so many questions and I have a lot of confidence in you.
Speaker 3: I also know you have relied on the top experts in the world and the country. You hired the top three law firm in the country to develop the contract you're working with to, say, the airline's top engineers and designers.
Speaker 3: I have confidence in our design team to do what's best for our airport and for Denver, and I will be supporting it. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman Black, Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. And I was right. I was telling people yesterday we would not be voting on this Monday night. We're not going to be. This. This has been a fascinating process of trying to come to yes or come to no on this contract.
Speaker 10: I've spoken to people I have great respect for who think this is a terrible idea. And I've spoken to people I have great respect for who think this is a spectacular idea and that complicates things. I've spoken to experts on legal matters, financial matters, labor issues, business practices, both on city staff and outside of city staff.
Speaker 10: And I'm pleased to say, you know, my my friend, Councilman Herndon and I often find ourselves on different sides of issues. But what I agree with him wholeheartedly is and have from from the first time I heard about this is this project needs to get done.
Speaker 10: As has been talked about, our security process has for flaws as far as crowd safety and control. Our screening process compared to other airports we've seen is antiquated. At this point, we can get people through the TSA lines more quickly and with so much less stress.
Speaker 10: With with new with new technology. And to use the the entire floor of the Great Hall for a travel related cattle call is is offensive at one level. I mean this is a world class beauty. You know, the are the jets and terminal is just stunning.
Speaker 10: And we it should be a place where people can relax, wander, shop if they care to have a drink while waiting for someone to come in off a plane. The interior of the Great Hall should at least begin to approach the elegance of the roof above it.
Speaker 10: So as I said, I'm clear the project needs to get done, but the project is only part of the equation. The big thing is the deal and trying to understand if this is or is not a good deal.
Speaker 10: I mean, first of all, what kind of lunatic would sign a 30 year contract? Right. Many of us, many of us buy our homes on on 30 year mortgages. And over the course of that mortgage, you know, I'm still I think I have about eight years left to pay on my home.
Speaker 10: The past couple of months, I bought a new dishwasher. I'm paying off my mortgage. I bought, you know, a new a new refrigerator. And I'm going to paint my house. And in the course of the 30 years that this contract runs, God knows what's going to happen to that airport.
Speaker 10: I mean, we may be building an entire other terminal within 30 years. It's almost assured we're going to build at least one more runway and things are going to break and need to be repaired while we're doing this.
Speaker 10: So that concept is not all that far from. The good thing that I've come to to believe about this contract is as opposed to my mortgage, there's a lot more protections built in for the airport in this contract than I have in my mortgage.
Speaker 10: If the economy goes south, I could be in a big time jam. If I get sick, I could be in a big time jam. I doubt any of the staff sitting here today is going to be here working at DIA in 34 years.
Speaker 10: But there are protections for the airport during construction. If something goes awry there, there are protections for the airport. If three years into it, Ferrovial decides they've got another project and they want to head south. So I think that is awfully important.
Speaker 10: The taxpayers. This is important to me as I look at this contract is DIA and I excuse me for a day and then I'm still back in the old school days of DIA. The airport is an enterprise, and this project, if something happens that we can envision and it becomes a big problem, that does not roll back
Speaker 10: on Denver taxpayers. And right now that's important for me because this for me is a test case for P3. And I know we've had others, but this is this is a whole different level and. You know, I look at the fact that and I appreciate ferrovial expressing a willingness to reopen contact with our friends at Unite here
Speaker 10: . But, you know, I don't know you guys. And if this were a contract where Ferrovial was going to have control over 40% of the concessions or 60% of the concessions, I don't think I'd be considering this contract. This this is, as I understand, this Ferrovial will be looking at around 15 to 20% of the concessions.
Speaker 10: Okay. We we've got full ownership over the airport. We've got full ownership over the Great Hall. We're trying this out to see how this goes. I remain I have concerns over. Giving up that oversight. While I fully agree with Councilman Herndon's interpretation of exactly how much oversight we have currently, but it is a give.
Speaker 10: We're all learning about P3 and what that means, and I've said it before, but I feel it's important. I mean, I see this as a major alteration to the way we do government. You know, we we've added to the judiciary and the executive and legislative, and we're bringing private business into an area making decisions that previously have
Speaker 10: been legislative. And we're going to have to see how that goes. So. You know, I came in here tonight leaning towards. Yes. And that whole discussion of the labor issues. Your answer, sir, was really important to me. And I appreciate that.
Speaker 10: As I said, the project needs to get done. I feel we have enough assurances that it's financially sound, that the airport's protected and the taxpayers are protected. So. I'm leaning towards? Yes. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Castro. Okay, Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. And I appreciate Councilman Herndon's recounting as he represents the area where the airport is. He's naturally very familiar with it. I could probably tell him where the where the aliens are hiding out, though. Councilwoman Ortega and I probably recall the groundbreaking back in 89 and going out there almost every day.
Speaker 6: When there was nothing but a Grange Hall at some lonely country crossroads. And this this last major airport to be built in the United States. Since then, no other airport has been built new from the ground up. And it's become, what is it, a $26 billion economic generator annually for the state of Colorado.
Speaker 6: And I remember those first years. I remember those some boneheaded decisions. The toll gates. Everybody remembers the toll gates. Everybody coming into the airport had to pull a ticket even if you didn't have to pay on the way out.
Speaker 6: It took about an hour to get out. I remember I remember asking the mayor why you were putting a fountain in the middle of the terminal overtop of a 25,000 volt electrical train system, and they ended up putting a stainless steel drip pan under it so that it wouldn't short out the train.
Speaker 6: But by and large, it turned out to be. You remember that, right? By and large, it turned out to be a very good decision. And and I think it proved it refuted most of the criticism. It didn't go financially belly up after 18 months.
Speaker 6: You know, we've had some issues with the soils. We've replaced a lot of concrete, but it is 22 actually the concrete's, about 25, 26 years old when that went in. And Councilman Ortega probably remembers going out there in the first years and enjoying the gypsum terminal as this wonderful place to go and sit and wait for your
Speaker 6: wait for your party to arrive. And and then one one day in September of 2001, some al Qaeda terrorists hijacked four jet airliners and changed our world. We designed an airport for the days before 911. And suddenly that airport had to adjust and we couldn't use the jets and terminal for the way it was meant to be
Speaker 6: used anymore. It became, as Councilman Cashman so aptly put, a cattle call. When I look when I look in there and I don't remember the days where we used to be able to go out and enjoy that space, it's just amazing that we're we're cramming this function into a space that was never designed for it.
Speaker 6: So for the folks who think that we're changing the Great Hall and we're messing with the airport. The Jeppeson terminal already was messed with. It was messed with on September 11. And I see this project as us reclaiming the Great Hall and making it better than even than it was in those first days.
Speaker 6: 911 changed where the hotel went. You know, I wasn't real happy when the whole I actually ran into Kurt Fentress last night and I knew who the architect for the airport. And I'm not real happy that the hotel went there, but where we were going to put it initially, 911 said, we can't do that anymore.
Speaker 6: So we had to adjust to make changes. So I believe what we're doing today is taking the Great Hall back to what it was supposed to be when it opened in 1995. Long term contracts, as Councilman Cashman mentioned, the 30 year mortgage.
Speaker 6: The same thing applies to the $1.8 billion cost because that's not $1.8 billion today. That's over the 34 years, just like my home mortgage. In addition to paying the mortgage for 30 years, I'm also paying the heat, the light, the gas.
Speaker 6: I'm fixing the roof. I'm changing out the kitchen over time. This that 1.8 billion includes 38 years. When you go out, the other three, the one on which I worked after the newspaper closed and I worked at RTD, the Eagle three project, the train to the airport, the 34 year cost of that concession agreement is significantly more
Speaker 6: than this $1.8 billion paying for 30 years of operations and maintenance, running electric trains in and out of the airport, and then Arvada and Westminster. So it does not scare me that this is 30 years. It has to be 30 years.
Speaker 6: There's a reason mortgages are 30 years in. Car payments are well, they used to be three. I don't know what they are now. Seven year car loans. There's a reason for that is because you need to earn back the investment.
Speaker 6: We have made long term deals before. Bill McNichols, when he was mayor, made a 99 year deal with the Winter Park Rec Association. Are we still in that agreement? No, we're not. We've renegotiated that, I think, twice now.
Speaker 6: The Denver Broncos are no longer playing in Mile High Stadium. But guess what? The lease that they signed in when they added the skyboxes was supposed to expire next year. That stadium hasn't been there in 15 years. Walter Eisenberg stole some of my script earlier today when I was going to point out that the Union Station Alliance
Speaker 6: has a 99 year lease on on Union Station with an extension. In 1990, we entered into an agreement with the National West, with the Western Stock Show Association for the Stock Show to keep it in keep it in Denver for 50 years.
Speaker 6: And right now, we're renegotiating all that as as we speak. We've renegotiated the Winter Park deal in 2002 with interest, and that's now a 50 year lease. So the long term nature of this contract is is just an essential part of it.
Speaker 6: It's not something that should scare us off. If you were troubled, if you're out there watching or if you're sitting here in the chamber, if you are troubled by some of the cost issues, the cost increases on the hotel and a transit center project that we did.
Speaker 6: You should like this deal because now we're turning that all over to Ferrovial for a guaranteed maximum price, and they are responsible for any of those cost increases unless we add some scope out of that contingency. You should like that because hopefully you won't see those kind of headlines from our management of this project as we deal
Speaker 6: with the inevitable changes. When Ferrovial takes down a wall and finds something that. Is that their risk? That's their issue to fix. The biggest concern that I had going into this was that this takes away the city council's authority to approve or disapprove concession contracts for the 30 years of operations and maintenance.
Speaker 6: And as I sat down, I read through the concession agreement and found it is a living document that the the pyramid that the Ferrovial and the airport will sit down every two years and say, where are the trends going?
Speaker 6: How can we changes? How can we maximize the return on this project that makes more sense than what we're doing now because we lock in our concessions for much longer than that. And they're all staggered. This is a much more coordinated approach to doing to redoing that great hall and managing it in a more holistic way.
Speaker 6: It makes makes much more sense. Great hall partners can have much more flexibility and be much more nimble in responding to market changes than we could be even out on the concourses. And then I realized that for as long as I've been here covering airport concessions here on the council or at the newspaper.
Speaker 6: We have never turned down a concession contract at the airport brought to us. Not that that's a reason to turn it over to you. But the only two contracts concessions I can recall being pulled were two concessions in 1993 that that I and my partner, the Rocky Mountain News, wrote about some some kind of issues that had
Speaker 6: that existed with the proposals. And I see you laughing again. And Mayor Webb pulled them. Those are the only two concession agreements I've ever seen not go through and had nothing to do with the council. So turning this over to Ferrovial for that 30 year old M period, along with the parameters and the safety that we have
Speaker 6: in the concession development and management program. I have a lot of confidence that that this will be a very good and beneficial project for the city. And so, Mr. President, I'll be happy to support this. And I'd ask my my colleagues who are still on the fence to consider all the all that I've just said and vote
Speaker 6: yes. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Flint. Councilman Lopez.
Speaker 11: Thank you. Council President Brooks. I had to struggle with this decision and have made my myself clear to the folks in the airport community. The advocates. For me, having a say is a big deal. Not because. Because of a power dynamic.
Speaker 11: Because it's public. Because this is a public airport. It was our time as a public that built this airport. And it is our oversight over the years that built the airport, the public. At this council and one previous but us.
Speaker 11: And that that's that's who we are. You know, I did get an opportunity to see some of the other airports. And I was impressed by so. But their private. And we cannot compare apples and oranges when it comes to private and public facilities.
Speaker 11: I want to make something very clear before we start and before I make some additional points. Being that we are a public airport. However this shakes out. We are the public. This council represents Denver. That's the interest that we have at this table.
Speaker 11: And it's nothing to laugh at. It's nothing to sneer at. It's nothing to be taken lightly. This is something that is sacred to us and our say. In these matters are absolutely sacred. And that's something that you can't take lightly.
Speaker 11: And not only affirming that we are public, but we are also watching. A Labor violation, we will know about it. Discrimination either as a concessionaire. In a contract, an unfair process and unfair labor practice. We're watching. And we have the authority to act and we will maintain the authority to act.
Speaker 11: And that's something that we will always have. That is the difference between a private entity and a public. And let's not get that confused. Right. This is a contract. But we don't give up our ability to make policies that govern the our our our asset as a public.
Speaker 11: So I want to make that absolutely clear. And knowing that, have a little bit more assurance. Of our role. Now, 34 years is absolutely a long time. My baby girl will be 44. Right. But what are we getting for those 44 years?
Speaker 11: You know, I know some houses that I wouldn't. But I would detest. Having to pay for for 34 for 30 years on a loan like that. There are some bad deals that we can get locked into just because, you know, there are other deals out there with the same amount of time doesn't mean that we can.
Speaker 11: My other issues labor. And it's dear to me because I've organized workers at this airport in my previous life. I know what it is like. I've seen it. But I also know what it is like when somebody is respected on the job.
Speaker 11: You've had a lot of different fights. And every single one of them, they've been settled. Why? Because it's public. We don't have the. The the. If you would call it. Right. We don't we don't have the the luxury.
Speaker 11: I wouldn't call it a luxury. They just ignore it. Right as as some practices are in the private sector, I will just ignore them, let them scream their lungs out. We'll have security deal with them. Absolutely not. This is a public airport.
Speaker 11: And in this public airport, the dishwasher is going to get the same amount of respect as the ironworker, as the greeter. A job is a job in the eyes of the airport and in the eyes of the public.
Speaker 11: And it is with the exact same dignity that we treat those jobs. So although I very much applaud the what's written in the contracts, the prevailing wage, you know, the incentives, the benefits, the apprenticeship opportunities that's given to one part of labor.
Speaker 11: I would expect that to extend over to the folks that are making a third of the way. Your dishwasher's. Your cooks. Your preps. The cashiers. We brag all the time about how our airport is beautiful and sparkling clean.
Speaker 11: Well, it doesn't happen automatically. It doesn't happen with elves at night. These are real people. My father was one of those real people in downtown. Let me tell you a little story. Every time my dad and his company as a janitor making minimum wage.
Speaker 11: Would be outbid at a building. They'd have to leave. He'd have to find another job. And with that, we'd have to find another house. I look at George because he wrote about this one time when he was a reporter.
Speaker 11: There's no secret. That I bounced around from one place to the other to the point where it was actually an issue when I was running for office, because they couldn't determine exactly where the hell I lived. That is because my father had to change houses every single time to the point where we actually moved in a home
Speaker 11: where I didn't fit anymore. And with that was a new level of poverty. To the point where I was out by 17. That's what happens when you don't have retention. That's what happens after ten years of or a few years of working.
Speaker 11: And then all of a sudden you're let go and you've got to start anew again. Making minimum wage. These aren't just issues of ideology. These are real lives that we're talking about. And in 34 years, that's a few generations.
Speaker 11: And are we going to sign a contract that's going to be 34 years of poverty or 30 years of 34 years of prosperity for people who are working at the airport. Right. These are the maintainers of our airport.
Speaker 11: When it comes to the concessionaires. I want to make sure and I've made this clear. That if you're a CDB. You or a small business person in Denver. Whether you sell burritos or hamburgers or yoga or whatever, you have that idea.
Speaker 11: When somebody asked me, Hey, how can I get into the airport? How can I work at the airport? Oh, my God, that seems like a killer opportunity. I said, Well, first you got to win the lottery. You have a better shot at winning the lottery than working at the airport.
Speaker 11: I'm sorry. As a concessionaire that needs to change. And this this program needs to be. Impartial. Right. When I go to different airports, I don't want to go to the same old stores at every airport in every city.
Speaker 11: I want to see I want to taste that city if I'm if I am there just on a layover. I want to experience Denver. Right. That's what it's about. I. I wasn't. No. I want to make sure. Ferrovial.
Speaker 11: You were on record. People here testified on record. When it comes to somebody wanting to organize. I don't believe in exclusivity, but I believe in Fox's opportunity and the right to form a union. I don't care if it's at an airport.
Speaker 11: I don't care if it's at a farm field. I don't care if it's in one of our buildings in this very building as well. That needs to be maintained. That needs to be defended. And again, in the public sector, there are other practices.
Speaker 11: But here, that's not our practice here. That's a value of our city. Right. And you're seeing this over and over again. And I've been part of different councils to see how this has grown. It is essential. That freedom, that opportunity.
Speaker 11: Right. And. With that. And we have our job to do as council now, as council members announced to be that check and balance. Now, last thing I will end with. We will have a retention ordinance. If you cannot create that policy.
Speaker 11: Which was told to us in committee. We will. And as a matter of fact, we have begun. And so that is something that is that is essential to us. I don't want to wait till you have to do it.
Speaker 11: I want to see the steps being taken before we have to make it policy. And that goes. Also, it surprised me that the prevailing wage that we offer for some folks in the building aren't extended to the least among us.
Speaker 11: The least paid. Right. There's a lot of people that look like me. I want to make sure that they have that that. That opportunity as well, too. We can we shouldn't pick and choose what jobs deserve, prevailing wage and what don't.
Speaker 11: So I think that's something that I really, really want to look into at the end of the day. I am leaning towards a yes. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Councilman Lopez. Councilwoman Cannick.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Councilwoman Candace, let me just say this real quick. The air is off in here and we're working on getting it on for you. Incredible people. Okay. One thing.
Speaker 3: I noticed that as I took my sweater off and it's a very strategic move, Charlie, to get things get things.
Speaker 1: Going. Turns off it at midnight.
Speaker 3: I've got zero steps up here for the this state in August. So thank you to all those who testified. Thank you to the contractor and the team and to to the good good questions from my colleagues there, I think, are three things that we're obligated to explore here.
Speaker 3: One, is this the right project? Two, is this the right contract? Three, is this the right partner? And I think that from the questions we had, you may not think that we're concerned about some of the financial components.
Speaker 3: That because for me personally, I didn't ask a lot of questions about that. And that is because I spent about 6 hours of time, both with various members of the team and talking to other folks and experts looking at that.
Speaker 3: And what I found was really encouraging. Councilman Lopez described the checks and balances, and I start with a fair bit of skepticism about P threes because they throw off the balance of the public sector transparency, accountability, ability to control and evolve.
Speaker 3: And so I start with skepticism about that loss of balance in that check in the system. But here are some of the features that that I think are important to note. We retain ownership, right? We're not turning over the asset.
Speaker 3: We get approval over a number of components, the concession plans and other things. That is not a feature in all of these agreements to be able to have approval rights over some of these personnel and especially over policies.
Speaker 3: Our key policies do apply, be them contracting policies or the auditor's ability to audit worker policies. I shared a lot of concerns in committee and probably spent a lot of time asking questions about the compensation event. One of my top concerns with privatization of public assets is the fact that if we have to change our approach, then
Speaker 3: I it appalls me that we have to pay a contractor for things that we have to do to protect the public interest, safety, whatever it is. So I spent a lot of time and even as late in the day as I forget what it was.
Speaker 3: 420 today learned that the compensation events do not require us to pay this contractor if there are changes in policy that apply to the entire airport and aren't just focused on them in terms and it took six definitions sorted out at the exact same time to get there.
Speaker 3: So in my defense, that's why I didn't get it till 420 today. But but because it looks like we'd have to pay for those things. But when you sort through the definitions, we can change the policies we need to.
Speaker 3: To Councilman Herndon's point, there is responsibility on the part of this council to take responsibility for policy, not just on worker issues, but it might be on other issues, safety, for example, in the future. But we will not have to pay for those changes.
Speaker 3: That is a key. I could not vote for this contract if that were the opposite. And we are going to have public auditor access, which means beyond my expertize during the years of this contract, if something's going awry, there's an.
Speaker 12: Expert team that can have.
Speaker 3: Access. So that is a fair bit of protection, control, influence and standards for a deal like this. So I appreciated Councilman Herndon's comment that no no deal is perfect. The part of this deal that is concerning is the lack of a final design on the airport pieces or the airline pieces.
Speaker 3: That's a concern. If there were support in this council to delay this contract to get that resolved, that would be the prudent thing to do. The prudent thing to do would be finish your design, enter into your contract.
Speaker 3: This is not a best practice to be knowing that you're looking at changes when you sign a contract. It's just not. Having listened to the comments tonight and watched the vote in committee, I don't think there's the votes for that delay.
Speaker 3: So this contract isn't perfect, but but I am weighing that risk right about that piece. The design. Is this the right project? So we talked about the deal and it's a it's a better deal than many public private partnerships.
Speaker 3: Is this the right project? I share the analysis of my colleagues about the need for the redesign of security. I spent, what, 36 minutes waiting for it for a6am flight to get through security? That's not an acceptable wait time, I don't think.
Speaker 3: And I think that I was not a fan of the walk through retail. I will share the key factor that got me there because I and I heard from constituents on this, I probably heard from more constituents on that fact than any other aspect of this deal.
Speaker 3: Right. And there are wide walkways and we actually have a written standard about how wide the walkway has to be. So people actually aren't trapped in a sense that they can't get through with their bag. They are trapped in a in a narrow mall place that they can't get out of.
Speaker 3: It's not like an IKEA. Right. And so I don't love that piece of the design, but I am satisfied that we have a standard so that people who are in a hurry can get through quickly. And so I'm there on that piece of the design.
Speaker 3: Obviously, the airline piece applies to this project as well, so then we get to the point of the partner. So I was surprised how far I was able to come on this contract. Coming into this meeting today. But I was stuck on is this the right partner?
Speaker 3: And, you know, again, I just want to clarify for members of the public who may not be aware, why is the council asking all these questions about workers and labor? There's values involved, as Councilman Lopez said, but there's actually an economic interest.
Speaker 3: The airport is a revenue generating economic enterprise for the city and county of Denver. We have a labor dispute going on. That labor dispute has resulted in bad media. It has resulted in protests and, you know, other actions at the airport that are, frankly, a turnoff to the traveling public and they represent an economic threat to our
Speaker 3: asset. Right. A major I mean, in fact, labor disruptions are such a risk. They're named in this contract as an economic risk. So we have this financial interest in the airport and disputes, lawsuits, things like that are a risk to us.
Speaker 3: And I believe that risk needs to be managed. We are neutral on what the outcome of these conversations are, right? That's for the parties to figure out. But the fact that it's my expectation that public entities sit down and talk and they sit down and listen.
Speaker 3: That's the kind of partner we need to be doing business with. And I you know, it's rare to see a conversation move in this chambers the way that this one did tonight. But but I think that is is really for me, the important part is that I got to know because we I mean, I meant what I
Speaker 3: said. There will be people mad at this contractor. There will be there will be legal threats. There will be disputes. And I need to know that no matter who those parties are, if they are minority contractors, if they are my active contractors, concessionaires, that this partner will do what our airport would have done, which is to meet
Speaker 3: , talk, listen and not a not not shut the door. And so so that's the part I was stuck on and I heard move movement on that tonight. So. So I am ready to support this agreement. It's not perfect, but it is strong.
Speaker 3: And the agreement, you know, the project is strong. And I got to get to know this partner better. Councilman Cashman, I hate following you because you cover everything, but I too, you know, need to get to know you better and know that this commitment isn't a fleeting in the chambers kind of moment, but that it's really who
Speaker 3: you are and that you are going to stick through hard conversations. So. So, you know, I'm taking that leap of faith, but and I expect the folks you meet with to do that in good faith and to call a cease fire on, you know, negative press and other things and have a quiet, private conversation.
Speaker 3: So I expect that of them to. Okay. With that, I'm ready to say yes. Thank you.
Speaker 1: All right, Councilwoman, can each thank you. Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry that we're spending all this time doing what most folks would observe as committee work on the floor. I appreciate the time that we are taking because we actually only had 30 minutes of discussion when this came to our committee, and it only came to committee one time for us to actually see
Speaker 9: the. Tales of this steel. So the fact that we're having that we have this many questions and we're having this much discussion is a result of of feeling like this was a rushed process. We did extend this contract one time at the request of the contractor because there were some things that were identified that resulted in, you
Speaker 9: know, having to make some additional changes to the design. And we could have done the same thing by this council asking for an extension to allow us to get all of our questions answered. I think the fact that we had an extra one week delay because the public hearing was postponed until tonight, gave some of us a
Speaker 9: little bit more time to get our questions answered. I do appreciate the time that airport staff has spent with me and and others within the city to get my over 70 questions answered. I tried to do my best to plow through the contract.
Speaker 9: There were several of us who. We're really feeling under the gun. So we actually hired an attorney or we consulted with an attorney who had followed up with our city attorney's office until we were told that we had no jurisdiction to.
Speaker 9: We didn't have the authority to do that. But that's how how. I guess uncomfortable some of us were in trying to really understand the details of this legal document, this legal contract. And it was very much written in legal terms.
Speaker 9: You know, you read one page and it refers you to several different sections. And unless you had a hard copy in front of you, it's hard to do that. Or you have to have multiple screens to be able to jump back and forth to the different sections to really completely understand what we were obligating the city to
Speaker 9: . I have no doubt that Ferrovial brings the expertize to the table. Having seen the work that they do at the Heathrow Airport, and I appreciate the fact that DIA took several of us to see the security systems in both Heathrow and Schiphol Airport to understand what we were looking at as part of the new technology for this
Speaker 9: airport. I think that will be. An incredible. Improvement in addition to to our airport that will, to a large degree, help with some of the throughput concerns that were expressed by our airline folks. But I think we're still sort of at the mercy of TSA to have adequate staffing to ensure that we can move and process people
Speaker 9: quick enough to ensure that we don't have the backup and the co-mingling of traffic on level six. Everyone that I've talked to that's had any direct involvement with P3 deals has been very clear, and we've read this in many of the articles that it is more expensive to finance these deals privately than it is to use our
Speaker 9: public financing tools to do them. I understand why DIA is looking at this because of the other improvements that we're looking at that will add more debt to to this important asset. I am the sole member on this dais who was actually here when we built the airport.
Speaker 9: I serve on this council with a team of colleagues who believe that this. Airport was going to be the economic engine that it truly has become and will continue to be for for a very long time. And I don't think there's anyone here that's more committed than I am having, you know, had that history and involvement.
Speaker 9: And, you know, I take the time to go out to the airport and to meet and talk with some of the concessionaires and to to better understand what some of the issues are from from their perspective, as we have, you know, those contracts that move through our process.
Speaker 9: Councilman Herndon mentioned that. You know, we shouldn't have complacency. And I don't think anyone here who is raising questions about this particular long term deal is is saying that we're settling for mediocrity or that we're not committed to some of the changes that I think are important that need to be made.
Speaker 9: And, you know, over time, we've seen many changes to this airport and will continue to do so. As we expand, we build the seventh runway, we add the extra gates to keep growing as this airport has. So I don't you know, and when you look at the fact that we have had some ten year contracts, those are
Speaker 9: basically for those concessions that are doing restaurants because of the capital investment that they have to make and looking at the opportunity to recoup some of that investment over over time. Some of the key elements of my concerns have.
Speaker 9: We're raised around transparency and the process. Councilman Herndon and I did sit on a committee. This was completely different than a negotiating committee that Kathy Reynolds and I sat on where we were basically closing down McNichols Sports Arena and working with cranky sports to open the Pepsi Center.
Speaker 9: We were actually members of that negotiating committee. We were thoroughly familiar with the details of the deal. We were keeping our colleagues, you know, informed of the changes as they were moving through the process so that we didn't get so far out, that we had to take, you know, ten steps backwards to bring everybody along.
Speaker 9: This process was informing us of some of the timing changes that were that were happening, but we were never involved in any of the details of the deal as it was moving through the process. I think that might have been extremely helpful to, you know, better understanding this.
Speaker 9: Obviously, taking the trips, looking at the the technology we were looking at was extremely helpful in understanding the the technology that that we wanted to install at our airport. That, again, I think, will will move traffic quicker. But.
Speaker 9: The fact that we're only at 30% design, we still have not addressed the airline concerns thoroughly. I'm concerned that we will begin to eat into our $120 million contingency fund. We don't know what that is going to look like until those discussions and those issues get resolved.
Speaker 9: But the fact that we're. Moving this forward with that completely unresolved is is very concerning to me. The fact that we had a 15,000 page contract that we basically had a week to review before it came to committee.
Speaker 9: That was part of why some of us looked at, you know, trying to get some additional assistance to help us figure out, you know, what this this obligation meant. I appreciate the fact that there are provisions in the contract that provide greater protections for the city of Denver and for for the airport as.
Speaker 9: This project moves through its various phases. But I, I don't have that comfort level that some of my colleagues do in terms of. Where where this deal is at. And I appreciate the work that everybody has put into it.
Speaker 9: I guess the last couple of things I want to say is that. When you look at the fact that we've got additional expense that we're going to incur at this airport, we are extending a lot of debt on this project and would.
Speaker 9: You know, and again, it's part of evolving and the airport wanting to. Be able to be that magnet for the region and be able to bring in more more airline traffic. Both. You know, domestically as well as internationally.
Speaker 9: But. I want to see that our concessionaires. So so one of the issues that we talked about earlier is the fact that we will allow a concessionaire who may already be at that concentration of ownership in our terminals will in our concourses will be allowed to bid.
Speaker 9: And I would love. I think it's important that people who have concessions on A, B and C can bid to be operators on the main terminal. But at the same time, if you already have a concentration of ownership, you know, I think that gets to a place where maybe we're looking at more of a monopoly for some
Speaker 9: of our concessionaires. And I don't think that's fair as we want to bring in more of our local businesses to participate in this airport. So I you know, I could probably go on and on with some of my concerns.
Speaker 9: I've been very vocal in this process during. You know, during committee in when this came to us last week about some of those issues. But I am just not there taking counsel out of having any review. And in really it's future mayors and city councils from being able to look at the concessions that will be selected.
Speaker 9: And I just want to say, having having met the folks that are part of the Ferrovial team, I think you all are nice people. I appreciate having had the opportunity to to meet with you, to ask questions. But.
Speaker 9: That that doesn't have anything to do with where I've landed on this. And so I just am not going to be supporting this tonight. And again, thank you, everyone, who has taken the time to be here until this late hour.
Speaker 9: But. I will not be supporting it tonight. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Ortega. Councilman Nu.
Speaker 13: Thank you, Mr. President. I think we've had very little discussion about the safety improvements. There's no question we're all comfortable that it's going to be a much safer environment for all our passengers and residents. So I think we're all very clear about that.
Speaker 13: The also, we've had very little discussion about the quality of four wheels merchandizing. I think it's going to be a higher level of quality operation there. And so to me, a safer environment and a greater customer satisfaction to me is going to lead to greater profits in that and this whole deal.
Speaker 13: So I think it'll be a better experience for all customers. It will lead to greater profitability. And to me that profitability is the future of our airport. We need those resources to help develop our airport and accommodate our growth and expansion.
Speaker 13: So I'm just pleased with the deal and are pleased that we're going to manage it because most important to me and to our citizens is this whole review and evaluation system and this process we're putting in place. I'm very pleased with Gisela and her financial staff.
Speaker 13: I trust them. They're going to be very good to help monitor this. Our CFO, Brendan Hanlon, is a great guy and he's so sharp he's going to be involved and our city auditors, unbelievable. He's going to be ordered in.
Speaker 13: Right, left. Paul, for Kim I to stay up late at night worrying about what he's going to look at. And most important to me is, is we're going to include the city council in this review process, give quarterly reports, answer our questions, everybody monitoring issues.
Speaker 13: So I'm very comfortable with this whole arrangement. And and I think it's going to be the Air Force, just such an asset for our city. And I think this investment in infrastructure is just going to bring us up to a higher level of quality and recognition of the city, which we deserve.
Speaker 13: So I'll be glad to support us tonight. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. New Councilman Espinosa with 3 minutes before one, you know.
Speaker 8: Sorry, Chris.
Speaker 1: Councilman Herndon. I'm going to eat up here. Your goal. First, I want to thank Dan, Kim, Stu.
Speaker 8: Aaron, George Keesler, everybody.
Speaker 1: You know, if you've anybody has seen me in meetings.
Speaker 8: No, sort of.
Speaker 1: I'm I'm fairly abrasive at times. And that was no different here. But I appreciate you sort of entertaining me time and again, both here.
Speaker 8: At my own home and out it.
Speaker 1: Out at the airport to sort of scrutinize the design.
Speaker 8: You know, like, you know, I've.
Speaker 1: Lamented not having a similar sort of time with the contract, not that you guys haven't been available.
Speaker 8: But it's just that and my district has a.
Speaker 1: Lot of things going on with it and a lot of irons in the fire, no different than anybody else, but I really still wish.
Speaker 11: I had more.
Speaker 8: Time.
Speaker 1: That said, I don't think it would change anything because.
Speaker 8: I want to also.
Speaker 1: Extend some appreciation to the Ferrovial team. Talking with you guys on the three occasions that we did sort of more in detail dialog.
Speaker 8: I felt like I always got.
Speaker 1: You know.
Speaker 7: You know, very, very.
Speaker 1: Quick, capable answers from very professional people that understood what exactly what it was that they were trying to deliver. And and so I just want to before I go further in my comments, just to express my complete and utter appreciation for the the involvement in this very intense time period.
Speaker 1: And you're willing your willingness to sort of accommodate us in the capacity that you did. But for me, private money isn't cheaper than bonding with our stellar credit rating. I know that we can pay the $9 Million termination fee, then design and deliver this project without a P3 arrangement.
Speaker 1: That position is actually a consequence of your work. Denver Airport near the victims of your own success. This is not the first time I said that you put it best when you said regarding capital projects, quote, Dyn is extremely well positioned due to its size, thoughtful planning and financial stability.
Speaker 1: You guys Denver Airport achieve that without any P3 arrangements. Today, Dan is ranked by industry publication, their World Airport Awards ninth. Best airport serving greater than 50 million passengers. Third best airport staff in North America. Second best domestic airport.
Speaker 1: Second best airport in North America. Third best regional airport in the world. And first best regional airport in North America. Those are titles, you know, that you guys achieved today without any three arrangements. And so congratulations and kudos.
Speaker 1: We really appreciate that because it is the economic engine that it is and vital to this area. I agree with the landside concept completely. You know, the physical design of this in approach and solution is, is, is, is.
Speaker 1: Is. Is, is. Stellar high, but its success is vulnerable to TSA performance, and that is an unfortunate reality. The contract is not an issue from a technical standpoint as it is very, very good. I mean, I have no issue with the documents that I have reviewed.
Speaker 1: And the whole thing as as stated and presented here today is very, very, very doable, exactly as promised in the timelines and the terms. And there is a clear availability for the airport to avoid a boondoggle or to address any impediment.
Speaker 1: So I don't fear going forward with this. But given the strength and given the strength of Din, if I was the seventh vote, I would be hard pressed not to support you guys in this request. But admittedly, I have the luxury of being able to vote my conscience on this one.
Speaker 1: And because not every loop is closed.
Speaker 7: Labor Airlines.
Speaker 1: TSA design and the transfer transfer of risk means an expensive delivery method. This approach is not about to me. This approach is not about saving money. It is simply providing predictability at the expense of hundreds of millions of dollars.
Speaker 1: Now I get why you would want to do it this way, but I still don't see any need. Cutting out council is to me authority like. And it puts distance between people and their assets. And that is not what my constituents are asking for.
Speaker 1: I'm glad that the analogy of the House was brought up, but to me it's more like giving a contractor with worse credit than you a bedroom in your house to operate an Airbnb for 30 years and to all to help pay for the kitchen remodel you really need.
Speaker 1: That is to me in a nutshell, what this arrangement is and unnecessary.
Speaker 8: So again, everything I've said it for that I'll, I'll be voting no. But it's not, it's, it's not lightly. And so I do. I don't fear going.
Speaker 1: Forward if council chooses to move in that direction. Thank you. Thank you. Guzman. Espinosa. Guzman. Clark.
Speaker 11: Thank you, Mr. President. Councilwoman Kennedy said about five people ago how hard it was to go because people have covered everything that you had to say. And I think people up here have covered a lot and it's late.
Speaker 11: And so I just wanted to say thank you to the air. I guess it's technically early. I really want to say thank you to our airport team. It is it was not an easy process to get this put together.
Speaker 11: It was not an easy process to get to here. And it certainly was not an easy process to get the 13 of us with our unique personalities and unique needs and how we needed to dove into this all of the information that we need to be able to vote on this tonight.
Speaker 11: I remember one day after having a bit of a mini meltdown on how many trees were being killed with the pages of print documents that were being brought to me. And I had a little mini meltdown on air and back there.
Speaker 11: And then I ran into him in the hall the next day with just boxes.
Speaker 6: Full of binders.
Speaker 11: And I my eyes got this big and then his eyes got this big and he said, There are other people who asked for this. There's not one here for you. And it just put into clear perspective just how hard a job you have and in getting us what we need.
Speaker 11: And you did a spectacular job of of that and making yourselves available at the Duffy role in the spare room here. And so I just wanted to say thank you. I will say that I don't think that it's.
Speaker 11: Possible that any of us could fully understand the 15,000 pages. It needs experts. And you are experts. I think it's even challenged Councilman Flynn, who generally catches all of our typos in the back parts of the document. And so anyone who's voting yesterday, as I will be, is doing it in large part because we are putting a
Speaker 11: lot of trust in our airport team. And and I think that you have shown time and again that you have earned that trust in running the airport and how you've brought this forward and the hard work that you've done to help us understand this work.
Speaker 11: So I just wanted to say thank you and thank you, Mr. President. All I have.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Clark. All right. Say a couple of words in this. Thank you all for being here. You went through security. Some of you pay for parking and you sat and wouldn't seats for a long time. So I really appreciate you all.
Speaker 1: And I think on behalf of all the council, we really appreciate you guys. You know, I think about what we've done tonight. We approved $937 million in a very equitable and inclusive fashion for the entire city through our go bond.
Speaker 1: We approve over $300 million of of wastewater redevelopment opportunities for the worst basin in the city of Denver. And we're taking the sixth busiest airport to the next level in the country. And there's a lot of concern over those things.
Speaker 1: And the community is obviously alarmed because we're going from a small town to a small, big city. We are becoming an international destination. And this is what international cities do. They make bold moves. And this is bold. But in the in the grand scheme of things of of international destinations, New York, LaGuardia just approved a $4 billion
Speaker 1: . And they need to do it a $4 billion improvement to their airport. So I know a lot of us keep doing those comparisons to our homes and our living rooms. It's not apples to apples. We're on a new level.
Speaker 1: We are competing globally. So the vision that our great mayor, Mayor Paine, you had is coming to fruition. And so it's hard for all of us, but this is the right direction. Let me just tell you why I'm supporting this.
Speaker 1: Authority versus influence. See, we have authority over a lot of things. A city council. And we think we have authority. But really, what we do is have influence and this P-3. Gives us and remains, you know, maintains that influence.
Speaker 1: I think. The authority of having every ten years a concessions agreement come through city council. We will lose that. But the influence for me to sit with Nacho and his business partners and say, I don't like how this is being run, I will still have that ability and I don't think people understand that or get that.
Speaker 1: I still can go to any. Even though they may not come through city council, any agency, head and even business in the city and say we need to get this done for our community. And that is the influence which we hold as City Council.
Speaker 1: So to say that you've taken our power away is not accurate authority versus influence. We still have an incredible influence. I talked about the world class airport, Sanders construction as a kind of clean it up a little bit in Denver and I love what you guys do.
Speaker 1: I love that you connect with local contractors. I love that you connect with local unions. And to have these contracting unions come in and speak about you being connected to them, I mean, that already had me so excited.
Speaker 1: So thank you guys for being a local organization that is serious about employing local folks and contracting business. And then no one really has been talking about this. And I think people are afraid to talk about magic. And but I'm a I'm going to tell you why I'm excited to talk about an African-American investor in this city
Speaker 1: for the first time at this level, I am a static because there are African-Americans in this city to do not feel like they are a part of the success in Denver. And I'm holding on to it because now there is an there's a gateway.
Speaker 1: There's an opportunity. And we have. Research Magic Johnson, not just when he played, but his actual business and his actual dealings in other cities. And we're excited about that opportunity in Denver because it's much bigger than just the airport.
Speaker 1: It's about the community. And thank you for already coming to the community and engaging in the community and Ferrovial, I appreciate you being honest and working with the community. I think Councilwoman Canete had some points of, yeah, we got to continue to work with folks even when they're not.
Speaker 1: Being the best. You know, they're they're protesting against us and things like that. We deal with that all day. I got people protesting me right now. Right. But we continue to engage because in public life, it's our duty to be kind to people in their misunderstanding or their understanding of us.
Speaker 1: Right. And so that's the way we want to be. That's who we are as Colorado. And I sense that you're going to do that. I sense that you're going to be a part of that. And so to the airport, thank you so much for your hard work.
Speaker 1: I feel like you guys worked like crazy. But now the real work begins to get this thing done. So thank you all for being here. We are going to move this thing for. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 3: Hi.
Speaker 5: Clark.
Speaker 4: Hi.
Speaker 5: Espinosa. Hey, Flynn.
Speaker 6: Hi.
Speaker 5: Gilmore.
Speaker 3: Abstain.
Speaker 5: Herndon high fashion can each.
Speaker 11: Lopez right.
Speaker 5: You. Something happened. Okay. Ortega. No, Sussman. I. Mr. President, I.
Speaker 1: Got the following results.
Speaker 5: Ten eyes two. Nays one.
Speaker 1: Abstention two. Nice to net two names. One Abstention Council Bill 822 has passed. Congratulations. See no other business before this body was manager.

Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Councilman Herndon. Okay, we are on to communications. Madam Secretary, do we have any communications?
Speaker 5: None. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: All right. We have two proclamations that I'll be reading tonight. And the first one is Proclamation 17 092 to recognize in the annual Brothers Redevelopment and Denver employee volunteer opportunities. Paine Nathan Day in the city in county of Denver on Saturday, August 19th.
Speaker 1: Whereas, through the Partnership of Denver Employees Volunteer Opportunities Deveaux and Denver Redevelopment 100 plus Denver City employees will volunteer their time to paint homes of deserving senior homeowners in the agency's 39th annual paint a thon, whereas all painting will be completed free of charge for homeowners saving the city's fixed income seniors thousands of dollars in home maintenance
Speaker 1: repairs. And. Whereas, volunteers will be beautifying homes and preserving home values in Denver area neighborhoods as a result of their participation. And. Whereas, the paint often is a great way to show the city employees take pride in the community and take care of their residents that they care so much about.
Speaker 1: Whereas a paint a thon truly makes a difference in the lives of many, many Denver residents, now therefore be of a claim for the city and county of Denver, Section one that the Denver City Council recognizes the day August 19, 2017 as brothers redevelopment paint a fun day in the city and county of Denver, and that the
Speaker 1: clerk of the city and county of Denver shall attest and affix the seal the city, county, Denver to the this proclamation and a copy be transmitted to the to the devil board. And I move that proclamation 920 to be adopted.
Speaker 1: It has been moved by me. And second it I'll make a couple of comments here. I first of all, you know, I want to give a lot of credit to brothers redevelopment and all of these city employees that are so involved in their community.
Speaker 1: But I got to tell you, you don't realize how many elderly people who are not connected with folks are shut in their homes until you start going door to door. And this summer, I spent a lot of time going door to door.
Speaker 1: And just this last weekend I was in North City Park in the Skyland neighborhood, and I could not believe the number of elderly individuals who lived in the neighborhood 40, 50, 60 years, but just alone and no one spending time with them.
Speaker 1: And so I know there's several folks on this council. I know we do this with the Hiawatha Davis senior luncheon and things like that, where we try and honor our elders in our community. But something like this where you fix up an elders home in their community, can transform your life, can be so incredible because they just
Speaker 1: cannot get out and improve their home like they used to. And so I want to thank Brothers redevelopment. I want to thank the 100 plus city employees who will get out of their cubicles, get out of the building and hang out with some constituents and really give back.
Speaker 1: So with that, Madam Secretary, it's been moved. The second row, Cardinal Clark.
Speaker 5: Espinosa, Flynn, AI Gilmore, Herndon, Cashman, Kenny Lopez all knew. Ortega i susman i black eye. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I please close voting as results 3913 as proclamation 922 has been adopted. I would like to call out Jeff Martinez, the president, and tell them to come to the front here. Jeff Martinez, president of Brothers Redevelopment and derrick hoyt of the denver county court.
Speaker 1: To receive this proclamation. There he is. How you doing, Miss Martinez? Very good.
Speaker 8: This is a DVD. So.
Speaker 11: First and foremost, good evening and thank you.
Speaker 8: For the seven sponsors for this proclamation. Also, this.
Speaker 11: Vote is now a big thing that we do as Denver employee. Volunteer opportunities is exactly that. We try.
Speaker 8: To find volunteer opportunities.
Speaker 11: For the city and county of Denver. And with that, we're able to partner with area nonprofits.
Speaker 8: So if you ever know of a nonprofit that needs assistance or needs volunteers.
Speaker 11: Please contact Deveaux. Deveaux Denver Gov dawg.
Speaker 8: And then moving on to the program or.
Speaker 11: To the proclamation itself in Pennington, I want to make sure I say thank you to Brothers redevelopment for the work that they put into this event. We went from painting three houses last year to now eight houses.
Speaker 1: This year, and we couldn't have.
Speaker 11: Done that without them. Additionally, with our DEVEAUX board, it's the same thing. We have unpaid board members that are out there putting in their time and effort extra curricular work to make sure that we can do events like this.
Speaker 11: And we've had about 140 volunteers sign up for this event. So it's a big thing for us. And it's also our 100th home with brothers paint a thon. So we've now.
Speaker 8: Done 100 homes.
Speaker 11: For 12.
Speaker 1: Years. So. Right.
Speaker 7: Good evening. Thanks for having me. Council President Brooks in Denver, City Council, we appreciate the opportunity. This is a big weekend for the paint athon and the historic milestone that we're gonna surpass in our partnership with the city employees and city of Denver.
Speaker 7: And so we're really excited and we're just so grateful to be in this spot to provide a place for employees to serve. And they've certainly taken us up on that for more than I think this is our 12th year, 12th straight year that we've worked on this.
Speaker 7: And yeah, we're going to surpass this huge milestone this Saturday, the 100th home. I think it's going to be next door to Councilmember Brooks. Right? I think it's next door to you.
Speaker 1: It is.
Speaker 0: We're coming to you. So to see you on a.
Speaker 8: Ladder with a brush, some gear, getting, you know, full of paint on Saturday.
Speaker 7: And we're looking forward to it. And we're going to be painting. There's eight sites, I think I counted in several districts and several neighborhoods over the past 12 years that we've worked together with city employees. We've painted 99 homes and we're going to make that milestone on Saturday.
Speaker 7: But that's total savings, collective savings for those homeowners of $225,000.
Speaker 0: And for fixed income, low income senior.
Speaker 7: Struggling to make ends meet, living month to month. That gives them the ability to use those resources toward grocery bills, utilities, going to the doctor, paying for prescriptions, whatever. And so we're just so grateful. And this really underscores and demonstrates the spirit of service that exists among our hardworking city employees, but also that exists here in the
Speaker 7: Mile High City. So, again, we're just so appreciative and looking forward to seeing you on Saturday at a house near you and see on those ladders.
Speaker 1: Hey, thank you so much. And, you know, I just want to say, there are a lot of reporters in here and they're probably thinking about cover India and some other things. Cover this. This is kind of cool. This is incredible.
Speaker 1: And it's some it's some cool stuff that we're doing in the city that doesn't get a lot of coverage. I mean, $225,000, we're saving elderly individuals. So thank you, guys for what you do.
Speaker 11: Thank you.

Speaker 1: Please refrain from profane and obscene speech. We don't like that. Direct your comments to the Council as a whole and refrain from individual or personal attacks. All right. Council is now convene as the board of directors of the 14th Street General Improvement District.
Speaker 1: Councilman Espinosa, will you please put Council Bill 809 on the floor? I move that council bill eight or nine be placed on the floor upon final consideration and do pass. It has been moved. And second, the public hearing for Council eight or nine is open.
Speaker 1: May we have the staff report?
Speaker 6: Good evening, board members. My name is Michael Kerrigan from the Department of Finance Special District Team.
Speaker 7: We are here.
Speaker 6: Today to take the necessary steps to accomplish the refunding of the district's existing debt. The steps include a public hearing on an amended workplan and budget, which includes the refunding.
Speaker 10: Transaction, followed by an action on the.
Speaker 6: Authorizing ordinance. The district filed.
Speaker 10: The district filed statutory requirements for advertising.
Speaker 6: And posting no notices for the public hearing. The Denver 14th Street Guide was created by council and approved by the electors in response to the 14th Street Initiative, a public private partnership between downtown Denver Partnership and the city and county of Denver to create Denver's Ambassador Street.
Speaker 10: The initiative visualized 14th.
Speaker 7: Street between Market.
Speaker 6: And Colfax as a promenade and a major gateway to the downtown area. The plan contemplated streetscape enhancements and related public infrastructure improvements. Stakeholders included private property owners, public officials and business organizations participating.
Speaker 10: In establishing.
Speaker 6: The conceptual design for the.
Speaker 10: 14th Street at a chamber election in 2009. A majority of the qualified electors of the district authorize.
Speaker 8: The issuance of indebtedness in an amount not to exceed $4 million.
Speaker 6: Subsequent to the TABOR election, the district issued.
Speaker 8: A $4 million bond in 2010.
Speaker 6: And used the debt proceeds to fund.
Speaker 8: A portion of the costs for the streetscape enhancements and infrastructure.
Speaker 6: Improvements to achieve the 14th.
Speaker 8: Street Initiative vision.
Speaker 10: In the spring of 2017, the District Advisory Board wanted wanting to explore a more efficient financial structure, engaged RBC Capital Markets LLC.
Speaker 6: As a bank solicitor, RBC obtained refunding proposals from six local lenders.
Speaker 10: After review, the District Advisory Board recommends.
Speaker 6: For approval. The proposal from Vector Bank, a division of Zions Bancorp. The proposal is expected.
Speaker 10: To generate approximately $692,000 in debt service savings, benefiting.
Speaker 6: The district property owners. The amended budget includes the appropriate.
Speaker 7: Adjustments to diffuse the current debt and.
Speaker 6: Issue the proposed debt issuance. The adjustments include accounting for the movement of debt, service reserves.
Speaker 8: Bond premium, principal and interest. The transaction sources and.
Speaker 6: Uses include the movement of four $4,306,000.
Speaker 10: City staff has reviewed the amended 2017 budget and work plan and recommends it.
Speaker 6: For approval this evening. Beth Moisi from the.
Speaker 7: Is here representing the district and Michael Persky is here representing.
Speaker 6: RBC and both are available to answer questions, any questions you may have. Thank you.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Michael. We thank you for also doing my job and listening the speakers. First, is Michael Persichetti there? Right. I only got it because of him. And you have 3 minutes.
Speaker 7: Michael PRISCU with RBC Capital Markets.
Speaker 14: In California Street, Denver. Just here to answer questions. Great.
Speaker 1: Thanks. Next up, Beth Maskey Denton of Apprenticeship.
Speaker 3: Hi. Good evening I'm here that my whiskey as a representative for the downtown Denver partnership and I'm the.
Speaker 5: Executive director of the 14th Regional Permit District, and I'm here to answer questions.
Speaker 1: Great. All right. This concludes our speakers for this evening. Quick question for me to you, Ms.. Moisi. What are you guys what improvements are you guys working on on 14th Street?
Speaker 3: Right now, we're maintaining the improvements that were made with the capital investment for the $40 million investment. So we're doing the maintenance, and the maintenance constitutes about $250,000 a year.
Speaker 1: Okay. And but for the for you're doing a 4 million.
Speaker 3: So this is refinancing a bond.
Speaker 1: Got it. Got it. So existing bond.
Speaker 3: Capital bond.
Speaker 1: Yeah. Great. Thank you, Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. What is the total amount of bonds that were issued for this?
Speaker 1: For me, it.
Speaker 3: Is 4 million.
Speaker 6: Okay, so this is the tote we're refunding. All of them were refinancing.
Speaker 3: Or refinance.
Speaker 6: And was the original maturity date 2034 also on the original, yes. So we're just we're just getting a lower interest rate about.
Speaker 3: Saving we're saving people money. I'm happy to be here tonight.
Speaker 6: Okay. Thank you. So same same term. Lower payments. Great. I like that. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Flynn, Councilman Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 9: Thank you. Just a quick question about the annual contribution. How will that change with the new hotel project that will go on across the street that's on 14th Street.
Speaker 3: That is on 41. So what happens is the distribution gets spread across all properties. I want to say there's 3540 properties and so it it all gets spread across. I don't know if Michael can do a better job explaining that, but it's it stays at the same rate and we just spread the pain across.
Speaker 3: Okay. Thank you.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you. This concludes a public hearing for 809 comments by members of council. This is represented in my district and this is a little shout out to Carla madison because I replaced her seat on this on this many years ago, six years ago.
Speaker 1: And so she was someone who was very influential on getting this passed through the bond. And this is a bond project from 2007 Bond and very innovative on 14th Street because you guys actually charge depending on what zone you're in, you get assessed more.
Speaker 1: And so 14th Street really transformed when we went through this. So I'm in favor of saving people money and continuing to keep up the maintenance of an incredible, incredible district. So. That's it. No other comments. Madam Secretary Roker.
Speaker 5: Clark. I. Espinosa, i. Flynn.
Speaker 10: I.
Speaker 5: Gilmore. Herndon. Cashman. Can each. Lopez. New Ortega I. Susman I black eye. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I please cause voting in US results.
Speaker 5: I'm sorry you got in. 12 eyes.
Speaker 1: Yep. 12 eyes. Eight or nine has passed. Congratulations. Okay. Councils now convene, reconvene and will resume its regular schedule. Councilman Espinosa, will you please put Councilman 18 on the floor?

Speaker 1: Two nights, three knees. 823, 28, 24. 826 have been adopted. All right. We are going to go back to I believe is 811, Madam Secretary. 819 819. I'm sorry, Councilman Espinosa, will you please put 819 on the floor?
Speaker 1: 30 Did you do it one more time, sir, please. I suppose. Where am I in my agenda here. I remember the.
Speaker 10: Council Bill.
Speaker 1: 819 be placed upon final consideration and do pass. It has been moved in segment. Councilman Flynn, go ahead with your amendment.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I have an amendment to Council Bill 819, which is the companion ordinance to our bond issues that we are moving forward in a block vote later. So I move that council bill a series of 7 to 17 number 819 be amended in the following particulars in the project description tables on page two after
Speaker 6: the words citywide bike infrastructure strike the words, for example, and insert the words including but not limited to on page three after the words sidewalk construction, strike the words, for example, and insert the words including. But not limited to.
Speaker 6: On page four after the words improvements to fire department buildings strike the words, for example, and insert the words including but not limited to. And on page four, after the words, improvements to police department buildings strike the words and Mr. President, feel like I should ask the audience to participate in this strike the words, for example, and
Speaker 6: insert the words including but not limited to.
Speaker 1: Don't play along time.
Speaker 6: One Page five After the words library or branch renovations, strike the words, for example, and insert the words including but not limited to. And on page five, after the words, aquatic facilities strike the words, for example, and insert the words including but not limited to on page six.
Speaker 6: After the words park improvements strike the words, for example, and insert the words including but not limited to. And on page six, after the words recreation center, renovations and improvements strike the words, for example, and insert the words including but not limited to.
Speaker 6: On page seven, after the words city owned facilities based on the condition assessment program strike the words, for example, and substitute the words including but not limited to. And on page seven, line nine after the word council, add the following.
Speaker 6: Whenever a line item project set forth in this ordinance includes a list of specific locations where the project will be undertaken, any modification to remove any listed location will require an amendment to this ordinance by the Denver City Council.
Speaker 1: All right. Question comments by members of Council. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. We we heard about this during the all the presentations on the bond issue and the I think the bond team on the 2007 Better Denver Bonds did a fabulous job in transparency and in reporting any change that occurred to what the voters were promised.
Speaker 6: And I think the biggest one that I can recall was the Belcher concert hall issue that had to be brought back to the council and in fact, was the reason my wife and I voted for the entire package in prior bond issues in 1989.
Speaker 6: In 98 and in 2007, the companion ordinance and each occasion had included much more extensive lists of the projects that we were going to undertake, that we were telling the voters, You're going to get these things. And this this time around, initially it was proposed that on some of these lists that were bulleted in the companion ordinance
Speaker 6: , we would say, for example. So that would give more flexibility if changes had to occur down the road. And when I looked at the list, I noticed that any project that was in my district that was listed in the companion audience and remember, were only listing very few of the hundred.
Speaker 6: Some projects were doing any project for my district that was on this list was on that bulleted list, which meant if anything was deleted out of my district, no one ever had to come back to this council to say, we're not going to do that and here's why and here's what we're going to do instead.
Speaker 6: So all we're doing here, Mr. President, and this does have the support, even after the the remarks I just made of the administration, what I'm doing is saying that of the projects that are on that list, including the bulleted ones, if they end up unable to do them.
Speaker 6: They would have to come back to the council and explain why and how they're going to how they're going to reuse those funds. So with that sentence, Mr.. I would ask for my colleagues to join me in supporting this.
Speaker 1: And and when I have any questions, I just want to verify on the record. Take us all the way. I believe you're representing the the administration on this. You also want to come to that to the mikes, sir.
Speaker 1: You all are supportive of this amendment.
Speaker 11: Good evening, President Brooks. Members of Council.
Speaker 8: Deputy Chief Projects Officer take us all the way in the Mayor's office.
Speaker 11: We are in support of this amendment moving forward.
Speaker 1: Okay, great. That's all we need to hear for the record. All right. It has been moved. And second, they were voting on the amendment on 819. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 6: Flynn I.
Speaker 5: Gillmor, I.
Speaker 8: Herndon I.
Speaker 5: Can.
Speaker 10: I.
Speaker 5: Can eat. Lopez I knew Ortega I accessible. I black I Clark Espinosa. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I please Kosovo and thus results.
Speaker 5: 13 eyes.
Speaker 1: All right. 13 Eyes. The amendment passes to 819. Councilman. Councilman Espinosa. We now need a motion to pass as amended. I move the council bill 8819 be placed upon final consideration and do pass as amended before we go into voting.
Speaker 1: I want to give folks a just a chance to make a comment who didn't make a comment last week on the entire package, believed it's a good time to do that. Councilman Clark.
Speaker 11: Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, I know we're only voting on the companion ordinance, but that was part of what I wanted to point out, is that for those of you who've been watching and are watching on TV and following all of these projects and have participated in this process at public meetings through our committees and structures that
Speaker 11: all of the the bond ordinances are going through on our block vote. And I just didn't want it to go by unnoticed that when we vote on a block, which is a yes, meaning that if nobody called it out at this point, those are going to pass today.
Speaker 11: That is the near billion dollars worth of infrastructure projects that the community put forward. And I just want to say thank you to the community for everybody who participated to the team, from the administration, for the awesome Bond team that we have, for putting this together and to our council president for working very closely with 13 of
Speaker 11: us, I guess 12 not counting yourself and in being that liaison between the mayor's office and council to make sure that tonight we stand here with a group of projects that is so supported that we're not even calling it out for a separate vote.
Speaker 11: It is on the block vote. So I just wanted to say thank you before I missed my chance, since it's on the block. Yeah.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Clarke. And you've been great to be working with on this as well. Thank you, Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. I did not comment last week, but everybody else did. So I will be brief. Ditto what Councilman Clark said. I too appreciate the input from all the community members and the hard work of staff and committee members.
Speaker 3: I submitted all of the hundreds of requests that my constituents provided me and our visioning meetings and through surveys, emails and phone calls. I'm very pleased that some of our requests were added to the list, like improvements to Hampton, Yale and Colorado Boulevard.
Speaker 3: And Are You Hill's Library? I'm especially excited about the Highline Canal Tunnel at Yale and Holly. It is much needed for safety. Some of my constituents were hoping for a rec center since we only have one very modest one in all of southeast Denver.
Speaker 3: But for the record, it's not on the list because projects need to be shovel ready. And at this point, we don't even have a location or any plans. So I'm hoping with Denver right and game plan, hopefully we can start more conversations about a future rec center.
Speaker 3: In the meantime, there are many, many worthwhile projects all across Denver on the list, and all of the investments will then be beneficial to our great city. So I'm very happy to support the 2017 G.O. bond.
Speaker 1: Excellent. Thank you, Councilwoman Black. And and I'll just say to Councilman Flynn and Cashman and Black and Espinosa, I think we came into this process and and their districts were lacking, to say the least, and just appreciate your inclusiveness in this process and working real hard to get to a good place.
Speaker 1: And guys, you're about to see something you rarely see on council. 13 votes in favor of $1,000,000,000 plan to improve Denver. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 5: Flynn. I thought I heard in Cashman I can eat. Lopez. I knew. Ortega. Hi, Sussman. I black eye. Clark. Hi. It's Wednesday. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I police force of voting and thus.
Speaker 5: Results 39.
Speaker 1: 13 Eyes Council Bill 819 is passed as amended. Okay, that is all of our bills caught out. All of the bills for introduction will be ordered published. We're now ready for the block vote on resolutions and bills for final consideration.
Speaker 1: Council members remember this is a consent or block vote and you will need to vote. Otherwise, this is your last chance to call out an item for a separate vote. Councilman Espinosa, will you put the resolutions for adoption and bills on final consideration for final passage on the floor?
Speaker 1: Yes, Mr. President. Yeah. I move that resolution. Resolutions be adopted on file. On final consideration. It be placed upon. On final consideration. To be placed upon final consideration. Do pass in a block for the following items. All Series 17 built in 081083108350846084908390842085009210803080508320833.
Speaker 1: 0836. 0840085108200792079980800080408120813081408150816 and 08170818. 0818. Madam Secretary, get him on. Think he got them all? Yes. All right. It has been moved in second. Madam Secretary. Roll call.
Speaker 5: Black. Hi, Clerk. All right. Espinosa. Flynn. I. Gilmer, i. Herndon, I. Cashman. All right, can each. Lopez. All right. New Ortega I. Assessment by Mr. President.
Speaker 8: I.
Speaker 1: Please. I was working as a result.
Speaker 5: 13 eyes.
Speaker 1: 13 eyes. The resolutions have been adopted and bills have been placed upon final consideration and do pass. Tonight, there will be required public hearing of Council Bill eight or nine regarding the 14th Street General Improvement District. A required public hearing on Council Bill 810 approving the Emily Grove Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment Plan and Redevelopment Area in a

Speaker 11: All right. Zero I's, 12 nays. Council Resolution 811 has been defeated. Madam Secretary, can you please put the next item on our screens? Councilman Espinosa, will you go ahead and put counseled Bill 819 on the floor.
Speaker 1: And move that council bill eight nine to be placed upon the floor for final consideration and do passed?
Speaker 11: It has been moved.
Speaker 5: I'm sorry, are we doing a 23 or eight, 1908 19.
Speaker 11: Next step of my jumping ahead here. Do.
Speaker 5: We should probably do the resolutions first. 823 823 2426.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 11: They're out of order. All right. So do we need to do anything to take back the motion that Councilman Espinosa just did?
Speaker 5: I know. We can just move. We'll go back. Okay.
Speaker 8: All right.
Speaker 11: Go ahead, gentlemen. Those are also.
Speaker 1: Listed as bills, but their resolutions, correct?
Speaker 5: There are resolutions.
Speaker 1: Of move that resolutions 823, 24 and 20. 26 be placed upon final consideration? Well, no, that's you know. And do passing the buck. Is that what I'm.
Speaker 5: Adopted in a black.
Speaker 1: And be adopted in a.
Speaker 11: Black. All right. It has been moved and seconded. Questions or comments from members of council. Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. Pro tem. Much has been made over the past year or so regarding the connection or lack of a connection between the plot, the Park Hill Drainage Project and the proposed Central 70 highway reconstruction. Opponents to Central 70 are adamant the two are interrelated.
Speaker 10: Proponents say Central 70 can go on without it, and P2P is merely redundant. I've spent more than a little time over the past year or so researching the topic, and my conclusion is that not only are P2P and I-70 tightly interwoven, the city is far more than merely an interested party.
Speaker 10: We are a fully involved partner in facilitating the highway project that I believe will have long reaching negative effects on the communities, North Denver communities to which it passes. And I'd like to read a few things from the IGA that was run through this Council just a few weeks before a new majority of council members took office
Speaker 10: in 2015. I'm just going to read you some excerpts. Whereas the parties, meaning the city and the state, have determined that there are significant mutual benefits to be achieved by cooperating and working together on the I-70 East Project and related enhancements.
Speaker 10: Whereas, to the extent permitted by the NEPA process and applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, it is the intent of the parties to set forth their understandings and goals with regard to their respective commitments for funding parts of the costs of the I-70 East Project.
Speaker 10: The parties believe the Twin Basin Drainage Project is a necessary and important drainage project with benefits for the state and the city respectively. If the Early Action Drainage Project was, which was part of P2P, if the Early Action Drainage Project segment from Pond seven to the South Platte River is not operational by December one, 2017, or the
Speaker 10: remainder of the EDP is not operational by September one, 2019, and this delays the I-70 East Project. The city workforce will enforce the liquidated damages provision and reimburse the state for actual additional costs to the I-70 East Project in the amount of liquidated damages from the city's contractor.
Speaker 10: The State believes the Twin Twin Basin drainage project will result in significant benefits for the I-70 East Project and will result in a redundant storm protection system for the I-70 East Project. As a result, the state will pay 40% of the cost of the project, estimated at 53.6 million, and the city will pay 60% of the cost
Speaker 10: estimated at 8.4 million. The city agrees that its ongoing drainage plans, policies and regulations will be developed with the goal of maintaining the functional capacity of the Twin Basin drainage project to handle the 100 year flood. If the final cost for the project for drainage elements exceeds $134 million, it is the agreement of the parties that any
Speaker 10: amount above 134 million will be funded 60% by the city and 40% by the state. Provided, however, that the state obligation for any amount in 53.6 million A shall not exceed an additional 6.9 million. And finally, see that I shall have the right to review all plans for the Twin Basin Drainage Project, including the Early Action Drainage
Speaker 10: Product Project. CDOT will provide comments focused on the functionality of the drainage plans. When plans for the EDP have achieved 30% design, the city shall submit the plans to see for review and comments. See that we'll have ten business days to review and comment.
Speaker 10: And the same is true for the 60% and 100% design period. I believe that Court could indeed have provided the needed redundancy for the I-70 project on their own dime, but I believe they've chosen not to do so because it's in their financial interest to partner with the city.
Speaker 10: I believe if they were going to provide their own redundancy, it would cost far more than their contribution to the city. And I believe that because I do not know see that to be intentionally benevolent folks that I guess they're figuring it's a heck of a good deal.
Speaker 10: And so a partnership with the city makes good sense to them. We continue to struggle to gain full participation from C++ in mitigating the construction effects on nearby homeowners. Where I have had a chance to vote on this idea, I would have suggested that the money we are gaining to help with the P2P project was not sufficient
Speaker 10: to facilitate the continued debasement of the neighborhoods that this oversize, misplaced and misguided boondoggle will pass through. That being said, Mr.. Mr. President, I will be voting no on these three bills tonight.
Speaker 1: Thank you. All right. Thank you. Councilman Castro. Councilman Black.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. President. When people ask me what is the most surprising thing about being on city council, I have said for the past two years that it's drainage. It's something I never thought about before. It was a city council member.
Speaker 3: But now everywhere I go, I see drainage basins and ditches that the city and urban drainage and government entities have built in order to protect our neighborhoods and our city from a serious rain event in 2013. We all remember the horrible floods that we had that destroyed a lot of communities and a lot of homes.
Speaker 3: I do support these projects. They will protect our city and our neighborhoods. There's been a lot of misinformation out there, and I just want to be clear on some things. Number one, the city park golf course is not going to be destroyed.
Speaker 3: It is going to be improved into a more beautiful and accessible course. Q Alumnus and Hall of Fame golfer Hale Irwin is designing it so that players of all abilities can play golf together. The new design will attract younger players, and it will be more inclusive.
Speaker 3: It will also incorporate facilities for the first tee program for children. The historic character of the golf course and views will be preserved. And of the 824 existing trees, 561 will be preserved and 660 760 new trees will be planted on the course or in the area with a net gain of almost 500 trees.
Speaker 3: We actually have our city forester here tonight who can answer more questions about the trees, but many of the trees that will be cut down are already stressed or damaged. They also will replace the tree canopy. So if you think of a large tree and the size of the canopy of the branches in the leaves, they'll replace
Speaker 3: that with as many smaller trees that will create that same area of canopy. Many of Denver's parks are already drainage areas to mitigate floods. Just this morning, I rode my bike around Bible Park, which is a drainage area.
Speaker 3: The other day I ran in Paul Cashman's district on the Harvard Gulch, which is a great plant path and it is a drainage area. Also in my district we have the Goldsmith Gulch that goes through Wallace Park, Rosamond Park and Bible Park, and it's a drainage area.
Speaker 3: Using parks and green spaces for drainage is a natural, smart way to mitigate a major flood. So with that said, I will be supporting these contracts.
Speaker 1: All right. Thanks, Councilwoman Black. Councilwoman Gilmore.
Speaker 12: Thank you, President Brooks. Protecting people and property from floodwaters is of the utmost importance. I know that we all agree on that. And I'd like to humbly share a little bit about my background so that you can put into context my next comments for close to 25 years.
Speaker 12: I worked within the field of natural resources. I started out at the Colorado Department of Natural Resources when Ken Salazar served as the executive director. I have also worked for Colorado State Parks and the Colorado Division of Wildlife, which is now merged into the Colorado Division of Parks and Wildlife.
Speaker 12: I began my career when the number of women and people of color within federal, state and city natural resource agencies were in the single digits. And sadly to say, we are, we still are. I have dedicated my entire adult life to educating people and advocating for responsible and science led management in regard to our precious natural resources
Speaker 12: . Prior to being elected to serve my community as a District 11 councilwoman, I was the executive director for Environmental Learning for Kids, a nonprofit organization. I started in far northeast Denver, which is dedicated to educating a diverse population of youth and their families in science, technology, engineering and math and natural resource issues.
Speaker 12: During my tenure with Elk, I researched, wrote and implemented many U.S. Environmental Protection Agency grants related to environmental justice and environmental education. I have supervised and directly implemented educational programs involving watersheds, water quality, including point and non-point source pollution, and monthly analysis of local creeks, including westerly and Sand Creek for page hardness, alkalinity and other environmental variables
Speaker 12: through the River Watch program, which is supported by Colorado Parks and Wildlife.
Speaker 9: First and.
Speaker 12: Foremost, this is a storm water management project. We must direct the flow of stormwater to detention ponds and the City Park golf course makes the most sense. City Park.
Speaker 3: Golf course.
Speaker 9: Is not a native.
Speaker 12: Ecosystem, a native ecosystem. In this geographic location, as the majority of Denver is a short grass prairie, it would be rolling fields of prairie grasslands with a historic Montclair creek meandering through the prairie landscape. This creek is where the rain and snow melt, which would go on its way to the South Platte River.
Speaker 12: The historic Montclair Creek riparian zone would move water through this landscape and slowly help the water filtrate through riparian vegetation, much like a sponge would work to clean our water naturally before it drains into our rivers and becomes the drinking water for folks downstream in northeast Colorado.
Speaker 12: Where my family lives in Brush, Colorado and on out to Nebraska. This design will help recreate the historic ecological representation of what was here, and it will consist of riparian areas and prairie uplands and will sustain cottonwoods, willows and other trees and vegetation that will create a wider diversity of wildlife habitat.
Speaker 12: The City Park Golf Course is a human created, over watered ecosystem, created to sustain the non-native turf and the trees that have been planted. The majority of trees that you see in a native prairie habitat would be cottonwoods growing along a creek because of their need for a reliable water source.
Speaker 12: We have an opportunity through this stormwater management project to create a more naturalized native landscape, which will highlight what was here historically, along with creating a more historic environment. The most recent email from Public Works shows that their team, along with the design team, have worked incredibly hard to not only mitigate the loss of trees, but to
Speaker 12: enhance the urban canopy with the addition of hundreds of trees. This landscape will be more sustainable and will consist of wetlands, areas that will filtrate stormwater drainage, which many times can contain oil, pesticides and fertilizers. Pretty much anything you put on your lawn or in your driveway or on the streets when it rains.
Speaker 12: We know the roads flood and all of that stormwater has to go somewhere. We will improve upon the non-native environment of the City Park Golf Course, and this is good, sound natural resource management. The bottom line is that along with properly implementing this stormwater management project, we should also stay focused on the public safety and safety of
Speaker 12: property regarding floodwaters that rise in this area because there is.
Speaker 3: Not currently.
Speaker 12: Proper stormwater infrastructure in place. I will be voting in favor of this stormwater management project. Thank you, President Brooks.
Speaker 11: Thank you, Councilwoman Gilmore, Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. Pro tem. So I think it's important to go back and talk about the fact that we had not only an IGA between Denver and Seaport, but there was a proclamation that was brought forward on the preferred alternative that was approved by City Council before the supplemental draft of the Environmental Impact Statement was released
Speaker 9: . I did not support that at the time. I did not support the IGA nor the rate increase that was followed, which included a $300 million increase to the rate payers in Denver. I believe there is a need for drainage in the Cole neighborhood.
Speaker 9: The Montclair Basin was one of the twin basins. There is a separately funded effort or planning process that's underway right now for that particular basin. But I think it's also important to note that when this Twin Basin project, which is now called the PDP Plat to Park Hill Project, was brought forward.
Speaker 9: This was not in the wastewater five year plan. It was pushed to the front of the line. And, you know, clearly it was to look at how to coordinate the two projects. And I actually had advocated that the $40 million court originally was going to spend on drainage for I-70 should be utilized because the city started talking
Speaker 9: about trying to address the coal flooding problem. But the project went from $40 million to what I just mentioned, 300 million. And I'm not sure we've seen the end of the costs just yet. Now, eight short years ago, the Globeville neighborhood had been taken out of the flood plain because of work that the city had done to
Speaker 9: make changes to the river corridor. And those low income residents no longer had to purchase flood insurance. Now fast forward to seeing a lot of the new development that's going on in this area. Anything that is less than one acre does not have to do any on site storm drainage, that's runoff that goes into our sewer system
Speaker 9: and into the river. We now have a new 33rd outfall that was done as a result of the RTD projects for the A-line. So that's additional water going into the river. And then when you add all of the water from this particular project, that's even more water that now dumps into the Globeville landing outfall, which is a
Speaker 9: little park right behind the Pepsi-Cola plant. For anybody that's trying to develop in the Globeville neighborhood, they are now having to build four foot high. Detention, not detention, but four foot high foundations to protect their buildings from, you know, being from from being flooded.
Speaker 9: So when this project came forward, we learned that Globeville will now be called an inundation area. This is not they're not calling their back in the floodplain, but it's an inundation area that is now requiring anybody who comes to our community planning and development agency that wants to build in Globeville on the west side of the river
Speaker 9: . They have to have a four foot high foundation. My understanding is that residents will also be required to have to start getting flood insurance again until that problem is resolved. I had asked our public works department to address this problem for Globeville.
Speaker 9: Given the fact that this project was put to the front of the line, there was no reason we couldn't solve the other problem at the same time. That didn't happen. So we were told we want to wait for the Army Corps of Engineering study that's being done on the river.
Speaker 9: And we're looking at probably ten years before Globeville may see some relief to this problem. We're talking about a community that's being impacted with national Western, with I-70, with Brighton Boulevard improvements, with all the development going on in these neighborhoods.
Speaker 9: We're going to see Washington Street redone. There will be an Excel pipeline that will go down the Washington Street corridor. So we're talking about a lot of impact to just this small neighborhood alone. Yet we made no effort to try to figure out how to solve this problem.
Speaker 9: So for all of these reasons, I have not been on board. I do think there is an issue that needs to be resolved with drainage, but I am not supportive of these three bills being approved to move forward.
Speaker 9: Has nothing to do with well-qualified people who have been selected to do this project. I actually have friends that are part of the team. But those are the reasons why I will not be supporting these three bills tonight.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilman Lopez.
Speaker 11: Thank you, Mr. President. I. Look, I know we've had this topic in our chambers a few times, and. Of The Jetsons.
Speaker 5: Yeah.
Speaker 1: To those viewers at home. There was a weird noise that happens like this.
Speaker 11: The catcher don't know the Jetsons. So I this topic has been in front of us a few times and I have a very intimate relationship with with it. You know, back in the day and in 2003. I was one of the folks I went door to door with with the survey, knocking on doors, getting the community input
Speaker 11: . Kevin You know, you remember this? Yeah. I think Kevin wrote the story that I was quoted in. But I was a young guy, and we knock on every single door from Globeville all the way to Green Valley Ranch.
Speaker 11: Every single one of those. It took us about seven or eight months to do. And we got, you know, everybody along that I-70 corridor. And we got valuable input from folks who said, we don't want this highway in our neighborhood.
Speaker 11: You don't want the housing in our neighborhood. Right. But if we had the choice, right, we reroute it or bury it. Right. It's better than this thing that is just above our neighborhood. Separating, creating this, casting the shadows.
Speaker 11: So. So I get it. You know, ever since then, you know, I look, I went through the process, and I saw that it took almost a decade just to make a decision on something that was obvious, right? I mean, it is it is a big deal.
Speaker 11: But and, you know, a lot of the advocates then are no longer around, but a lot of the residents still feel very strongly about it. And when this proclamation came in front of us, I voted no. Because I still.
Speaker 11: I believed in a reroute. Now. It was very unfortunate that we didn't go that direction. I think it was a tremendous mistake historically from a state in the city to tend to not fight for the root. Now we have what's in front of us.
Speaker 11: And I look at this through another lens. And that is a lens of someone who has chaired the urban drainage and flood control front flood control district for two years. Now, I never thought that I that this would be exciting or fun.
Speaker 11: You are talking about hydrology, you know, drainage. But I learned a heck of a lot. And I chaired this for two for two years, and I chaired it through the floods that we had and in in Boulder County and and Longmont.
Speaker 11: And and realized that the infrastructure that had that they had that the lack there we had in Aurora and the eastern part of our metro area. And we were even hit harder than they were. But if you if you remember the pictures, their houses were they were the ones that took it.
Speaker 11: They're the ones that got the the the hard that they were the hardest hit, lost their property, lost their homes, lost some, lost their lives. That's what happens when you don't have the infrastructure in place. They weren't part of the FCD or they weren't part of the urban traditional flood control district.
Speaker 11: They decided not to opt into that a while back. So in looking at at this through that lens, it is absolutely critical that we have the infrastructure in place for those neighborhoods right now. Um. I find myself in a hard position because here I am thinking about my work.
Speaker 11: And as somebody who went door to door in my work as a councilman and our vote against the current plan and I vote against the proclamation. And I come to realize that. Even if you vote no on this, it's not going to it's not going to bring back the reroute.
Speaker 11: Voting no on those. On these bills will not magically bring back the out. And that is what the primary thing that the residents wanted was the reroute or it lowered. And you absolutely is is my absolute truth. That is right.
Speaker 11: And what I remember from that, all those doors, 8000 doors that we knocked on. Right. People who I sat in interviews for almost 45 minutes a piece. Those are the two things. If it's not rerouted, put it under.
Speaker 11: If there's no drainage. Let's say that this is all for the let's say, folks. All right. This is all just to support, you know, what's going to happen on I-70. All you're going to have is another bridge for another 100 years.
Speaker 11: And you know, I get it. I get that there's folks that don't live there, that stand in solidarity with folks that are concerned about the the the golf course and the impacts that it'll make to the golf course.
Speaker 11: I get it. I respect that. I respect the solidarity. But you don't have to live with another bridge over your head for a hundred, 400 years. The folks in Elyria, Swansea and Globeville do. And all those neighborhoods all the way up to like around Colorado.
Speaker 11: That's what they said. That was the the thing that stuck in my mind. And I have to tell this story over and over because I see a lot of new faces that that are in the room and new colleagues.
Speaker 11: And, you know, I make this decision not lightly, but just with that intimate knowledge. Another elevated option cannot exist there. Not on my watch. It is. The I-70 was a grand mistake a long time ago, and it still is a headache.
Speaker 11: But the killing, the drainage for it isn't going to bring back the reroute, guys. And I fear that killing the drainage only if it does go through. And if the you know, every all the stars lined up. Right.
Speaker 11: You're only building another elevated bridge. And that is the absolute last thing that should happen on that road. So I will be supporting the the three bills ahead of us. I didn't also support the delay. And because that is our right on council, that was something that was made clear to us a long time ago.
Speaker 11: And, and and we we should always have room for that dialog in that process. So thank you. Mr. President, it is about lives and property everywhere, right? Both in Elyria, in Swansea and Globeville with the immediate remediation and.
Speaker 11: And areas that would be impacted by flooding. So. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Lopez. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. Last week I was I joined Councilman Espinosa and others in supporting a delay in this final consideration of this contract, because I believe that we should always take the time any member of this council wants to take.
Speaker 6: Within the time we were allotted to look over these contracts, we get such precious little time as it is. And I hope that with Councilwoman Ortega, we can take a look at that as a group very soon, how we do contracts.
Speaker 6: I also wanted to thank Councilwoman Ortega for reminding everyone that this plot to Park Hill I always thought it should be Park Hill to because water flows downhill doesn't blow up at all. But I didn't get to name it that the project grew way too much, too fast.
Speaker 6: And as I said last week is by a significant factor larger than anything wastewater has ever done in a single bite. And it just gives me heartburn to have seen it grown from, I believe it was actually 134 million.
Speaker 6: When you combine seed out in the city to nearly 300 million without, without full and without enough engineering being done, without 30% design being done on every element that was going to be built, which I regard as normal process.
Speaker 6: And so I wish that it hadn't happened that way. I voted against a stormwater fee increase. Councilman Cashman reminded everybody how just two weeks before the seven new members were sworn in, I believe I was sitting out in the second row there and watched the council pass the IGA that that kind of locked us into this direction
Speaker 6: and I regret that. And but at this point, I think to use these contracts as a de facto substitute for the plaintiffs in the McFarland case to file and seek an injunction after we passed the contracts, I don't think the Council should act in the place of the plaintiff and and give a de facto injunction by killing
Speaker 6: these contracts. So I look forward to the trial in, I believe, two weeks. And I am reminded that despite and I mentioned this last week, despite the optimism of our staff, I'm reminded of the City Park Pavilion case where the Friends of City Park defeated the city's plan to convert the pavilion into parks headquarters.
Speaker 6: And how shocked everybody was at that. And I remember the headline show, I was a judge, I think Judge Flowers in district court who said that that was not an appropriate use of a city park land. So I look forward to the trial, but I just don't think that this council should substitute its judgment on these contracts
Speaker 6: by handing the plaintiffs in what, in essence, is an injunction that they have not yet sought themselves. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Flynn. Councilman Clark.
Speaker 11: Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I just want to say thank you here to all the constituents who've reached out, engaged with me, sat down over coffee and had great conversations with me, were really smart, passionate people on both sides of this issue.
Speaker 11: I really appreciate that dialog. I spent my entire career prior to this working along the South Platte River. That's why my water bottle serves as PR for South Platte River on one side, and Greenway Foundation, the nonprofit dedicated to the river on the other side.
Speaker 11: I carry it not just on my water ball bottle, but in everything that I do. And it's Denver's river. I carry it in my heart. So I also take issue with the name of this, but not for the same reasons that Councilman Flynn took up.
Speaker 11: Because the Platte River is not Denver's River. The Platte River runs elsewhere. This is the South Platte River. And so we should stop calling it Plot to Park who should be South Platte when we were considering the fee increase to our stormwater to our stormwater fees.
Speaker 11: I met extensively with city and with the folks who I think the absolute world of at the urban drainage and flood control district. I dug in deeply into this, and there was one thing that was glaring for me after having those meetings.
Speaker 11: And that was that it is better for. The South Platte River to do this drainage project in conjunction with what is happening at I-70. I won't get up here and talk about it has gone past or whether I-70 redo is a good idea or not.
Speaker 11: What I know is that if we don't do this, we will once again be turning our back on the South Platte River. And we did that for a really long time and we destroyed the river. And it has taken since 1974 when the Greenway Foundation built the first park in the first trail.
Speaker 11: Imagine that a Denver with zero parks and zero trails along the South Platte River and the Cherry Creek. I can't imagine it in part because I wasn't alive in 1974, but also because it's not a city that I would want to live in.
Speaker 11: And we have been clawing our way back since 1974 and a hole that we dug and a vote against this drainage project does not stop the I-70 project. But what it does do is it will directly lead to dirtier water in the South Platte River because the I-70 project can continue on without this and they can put
Speaker 11: dirtier water in the river. And so for that reason, I am that I wanted to highlight why I will be supporting this tonight. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Clark. Councilman.
Speaker 13: No, thank you, Mr. President. Even though, you know, I think this project has a relationship to us, I think the most important thing to me is, is the flood mitigation part of this this whole project aspect. You know, my background was hospital management for well over 30 years, for a long, long time.
Speaker 13: And I went through several floods with hospitals that I managed. And it was devastating. The amount of damage to buildings and all the residential areas around our hospitals was just incredible. So I just have the greatest respect for the flood mitigation part of this that's going to be helpful to all those residents in Cole and and all
Speaker 13: along that whole route of appear to be. So is this flood mitigation is extremely important to me. Also keep in mind this is I think it's like a over $300 million project, but it's only part of a $1.5 billion plan of mitigation for our city.
Speaker 13: This is like deferred maintenance. I mean, this stuff we need to be doing. This plan was developed a couple of years ago. So we've got to be respectful to what our city needs in terms of total flood mitigation.
Speaker 13: And I think that's extremely important. Now for my golfers head on and I'm an avid golfer and I played saved par golf course and it can be improved and needs to be improved. It has the most wonderful views of our city, but this is an opportunity to make it a better course.
Speaker 13: Hale Irwin on Colorado, a Buffalo golfer, again, is going to do an incredible job of redesigning that course and make it into something that's notable. Our golf course right now is not notable. It's a good public golf course, but it's not a great course.
Speaker 13: It could be something that could be much more important to our city and and to all the people who play golf like myself. But the most important thing is flood mitigation. We've got to we've got to implement this total $1.5 billion plan over time.
Speaker 13: And this is the first part of it. So I'll be supporting these tonight. Thank you.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Councilman. New Councilwoman Sussman.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thanks to.
Speaker 5: My colleagues for their comments.
Speaker 3: And thanks to all that wrote emails to us all. First of all, I'd like to. I also sat on the urban drainage and flood control district for four years, and like Councilman Black, I never knew that I'd really be interested in.
Speaker 5: Drainage and outfalls and.
Speaker 3: And all the vocabulary that I learned.
Speaker 5: Certainly.
Speaker 3: Learned a lot about this particular issue down in the lower Montclair Basin. Councilman Flynn, the reason why one would call it the South Platte to Park Hill is while water flows downhill, you always start a drainage project from the outfall from where the water is going.
Speaker 3: You don't start a project from where the water starts. So that's why I think since the engineers probably named it, they did South Platte to Park Hill. We have known on the urban drainage flood control desk. We have known about, of course, the lower Montclair Basin is the biggest flooding issue we have in the city of Denver
Speaker 3: . We have had it for years. We have on the on the EDF. We didn't know how we were ever going to really manage that flooding problem, a problem that we have there. The while the I-70 project is kind of related, it's because they were going to bury or put below ground part of their highway that.
Speaker 3: They were going to run into the Lower Montclair Basin issue and they were going to spend the money to help the drainage. On their little part. On their little part. And if we don't and instead they decided to do to partner with the UDC, UDC, FCD and with Denver and to use the dollars that they were going
Speaker 3: to use to give to the city to also work finally on the Lower Montclair Basin. I've really appreciated that. Comments that Councilman Lopez made that not voting for this doesn't mean the I-70 project goes away. I'd like to turn that around and say.
Speaker 3: Whether the I-70 project is built or not, the drainage problem is staying. If the I-70 project were rerouted, the drainage problem is going to stay. If the project goes through, the drainage problem is going to stay. If we stopped I-70 and made it a boulevard, the drainage problem stays.
Speaker 3: We have the drainage problem regardless of what I-70 is doing. And most important, and most importantly for my district, although this isn't related to the Lower Montclair Basin, I firmly believe we need to fix that basin and this is an opportunity.
Speaker 5: To do it. The large project that.
Speaker 3: Councilman knew referred to is going to help my district, which is in the Upper Montclair Basin. And I don't know if those those of you are aware, but not every two or three years we get a flood up in at 14th in Jersey and Jasmine and Carney, where we have cars floating down the street.
Speaker 3: I spent the summer of part, a night of the summer of 2013 with.
Speaker 12: With.
Speaker 5: The first responders.
Speaker 3: Saving people that were floating in their cars. If you can imagine down Jasmine.
Speaker 12: And 13th and.
Speaker 3: 14th.
Speaker 5: And the larger project.
Speaker 3: Is finally going to help us address the Upper Montclair Basin. But I will be supporting this tonight because.
Speaker 5: Of the serious.
Speaker 3: Need that our Lower Montclair Basin needs, whether or not I-70, we're going to be enlarged. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Dr. Sussman. Councilman Newt, you look, you didn't pop back in the just system. You're okay, Councilman Espinosa. Sorry. I feel like I should chime in since I called this out last week too. Specifically to ask the administration to consider essentially postponing and putting in a clause or something for tree protection.
Speaker 1: We did get a. I did. I did. So I just want to know that I did make an ask specifically. I said that I pointed out that the highest inundation levels north of City Park in a 100 year event as model and in that stormwater plan is 2 to 4 feet and that and because in so what
Speaker 1: I asked him is because of a known breach in the Platte River levee, there's a levee called the Globeville Levee that's on the on the Western Bank protects Globeville. There's a known breach in that. Because of that known breach, there are several hundred year events that can occur upstream from Globeville.
Speaker 1: Remember, the South Platte River runs south to north. The there are several hundred year events that can flood Globeville to an inundation level of 15 feet, and that can happen multiple ways. The only way you do this in the Lower Montclair Basin is through a hundred year event in the lower Montclair raising and the.
Speaker 1: So I asked the administration to help me understand how even in a $386 million commitment to urban drainage, an $863 million commitment to the National Western Center, and now a three $934 million go bond ask. So those doing the math, that's over $1,000,000,000.
Speaker 1: Closer to two. How We Didn't Address Globeville. And then I went on to proceed in in and I don't understand the rationale because that stormwater management plan that was referenced didn't include these solutions. As Debby Ortega had mentioned, it did include some solutions.
Speaker 1: But you don't need you don't need a 39th Avenue channel. You don't need City Park. You don't need them both.
Speaker 8: You need one.
Speaker 1: And either one of those solutions solves both basins because the waters today that go through City Park, they actually outfall at the Globeville Outfall Landing or the Globeville Landing outfall. But because we're now taking water from a different basin and cutting that off through the 39th Avenue Channel, we have to hold that water.
Speaker 10: Somewhere in order to.
Speaker 1: Preserve the 100 year capacity of that channel. Not for the park, but for CDOT. And so, you know, I appreciate my colleagues in council sort of bringing this up and bringing this to light the sort of sense of urgency and connecting it to the Platte Park Hill.
Speaker 1: Because the response to the council to date and publicly about why this was needed was because there was a sort of finite window in which you can do this work and deliver this thing and still keep golf course sort of viable because of the growing season.
Speaker 1: And when you have to plant and plant sod and plant trees and what have you. Well, guess what? That happens every year. So we haven't done this to City Park since its creation, and now we have to do it in this window.
Speaker 1: We can't wait till next year's window or the next year's window. Why? Why is because of somehow something we're not talking about, the administration is not talking about, but this counsel is very clear on it. It's because this is needed in order to preserve its capacity to use stormwater capture the stormwater capacity of the 39th Avenue Channel
Speaker 1: . Four sedan for the highway. And so I argued, you know, I pushed back.
Speaker 7: I got a.
Speaker 1: Response. It was no. I pushed back and said.
Speaker 8: You know, because I was asking.
Speaker 1: Why not just complete the design were 30% design involved? Because, again, this is not the administration is not talking about the connection here. So I just pushed and I said, why not complete the design work with the community, complete the course design, hire Hale Irwin to do a fantastic job on the future of City Park.
Speaker 1: Maybe we could do more tree preservation in the process, get that clubhouse nailed down in the interim while you're preparing to do this project next year and then hire Saunders capable contractor. Very, very good to do this work.
Speaker 1: The answer was.
Speaker 8: No.
Speaker 1: And it's because of.
Speaker 8: Like I said.
Speaker 1: What we're talking about here tonight. And so this was not about, you know, this is somehow going to kill I-70. It's not you know, and I don't think anybody who's really trying to fight for city park and the preservation of that asset is saying that this is this thing is going to kill I-70 because, no, they will
Speaker 1: then put in their stormwater detention that they are not getting from 39th Avenue Channel into their project. They'll have to. And guess what? They'll have stormwater mitigation and water quality requirements for that for that detention that they put in their 100 year thing.
Speaker 1: I can assure you that if a 100 year event hit City Park or the 39th Avenue Channel, the water quality measures go away because at that level of inundation, there's water just moving. The water quality measures are there for lower flows.
Speaker 1: And so the reality is, is that we could actually drain these flows that go through city park and inundate areas north of City Park, directly into the 39th Avenue Channel today. He helped, you know, actually solved the drainage problems per the master plan for both the the two basins with just the 39th Avenue Channel and some additional
Speaker 1: work. And then city park flows will go exactly where they always were going historically to Globeville, Alfa. Our global landing. We are.
Speaker 8: So it's sort of a.
Speaker 1: Fallacy that we have to do this per an IGA. The Twin Basin solution is still solved. It's just not solved to the degree that it would want us to. In order to do that, we're taking on this additional work and we're obligating merely, you know, a significant portion of the $400 million which you are getting through your
Speaker 1: stormwater fees, which you did not vote for, and not solving real flood issues in Globeville and in other neighborhoods citywide, because we have taken on this agreement to sort of leverage. So the thing is the right thing to do is for City Park is to say, no, let's complete the design and move on.
Speaker 1: But if you vote for this, you're basically saying, look, I am putting the priorities of CDOT over this asset of the people of Denver.
Speaker 8: That I will be joining my.
Speaker 1: Colleague, Councilwoman Cashman, in voting no. And that's it. Thanks. All right. Thank you, Councilman Espinosa. I will go last to the cheering of the audience. I am. This is my district, and I represent this deal. And I got to say, from the very beginning, I was very frustrated with the administration for how they came talking to the
Speaker 1: community around this thing. It was it was not well done. It wasn't well communicated. And we had a lot of intense arguments and conversations about it and a lot of open meetings that were very frustrating. Since then, I feel like the administration really began to turn towards the community and reach out to the community and set up
Speaker 1: . We're talking about City Park here. I know we've talked about a lot of different things, but the city park folks, the North City Park, the city park west neighborhood and put together a stakeholder committee to begin working through the issues around this golf course and this drainage problem.
Speaker 1: And so let me let me start by saying when we talk about the the lower Montclair Basin. It's it's been said in ways but let me be very clear. It's the worst basin in the city. It is the worst base in any city.
Speaker 1: And in 2011, when I first got elected and we had a storm like we do in the summers and people's cars were floating down the street. Everybody remembers it then. Right? Got the emails. Councilman Brooks, you just got elected.
Speaker 1: What are you going to do about this? How will you address this? And I wasn't on the urban drainage, like many of the members here, and I started researching ways that cities do this. The most important work that a city can do is build infrastructure.
Speaker 1: It's this most important work, but it's stuff that no one wants to pay for and the public really doesn't understand or care about because we like the shiny things. And as I talk to my colleagues around the country.
Speaker 1: And we talk about different issue. When I tell them that we are having a community debate around drainage and paying for it in our city, they can't believe it. They cannot believe it because they can't find ways to pay for the real infrastructure needs of their city.
Speaker 1: I'm going to give you a number. 3000 homes. 3000 homes in my district, City Park, North City Park, Cole, Clayton, and into Elyria, Swansea. Will be protected because of this that is protecting my constituents. And so I will be supporting this.
Speaker 1: Obviously, this there's a lot of issues with the I-70. I live ten blocks away from I-70, and I get those concerns and many of the concerns from the group I actually agree with. Yes. This is this is an oppressive issue.
Speaker 1: But it's been interesting walking through the neighborhood, having these conversations through the last the last two months and hearing what they're saying. And I think actually, Councilman Lopez, he actually you know, he knocked on the doors back in the day.
Speaker 1: And a lot of people are saying some of the same things. Yes, I think the reroute would have been. What we want it. But we wanted this thing covered. We want it out the way. And there's a lot of miseducation from other individuals in the neighborhood about this project.
Speaker 1: I just had to show four homes in North City Park. The design of the new golf course because they believe it is going to be completely cement because they believe their golf course was being destroyed. So, you know, it's hard to have these conversations when we don't get a chance to bring everybody to the table.
Speaker 1: And this process was not perfect, but I think that we have is far from perfect. I think that we have ended in a good place. I really like the design. I like the team that we're working with. I like that.
Speaker 1: The architect. Who I see right there. And I forgot your name. But you're looking good today. I'm glad you're here. That that has worked on a large drainage project of this capacity in Palm Springs. Not for freeway. But the exact capacity.
Speaker 1: And it was incredible to ask them to send me all the information. Thank you for doing that. And he did. And so I will be supporting this and I thank everyone for the smart dialog that carried on today.
Speaker 1: But I'll be moving these bills forward. So, Madam Secretary, I just want to make sure it has been moved in second and we are moving to adopt resolutions 23, 24, 26, eight, 23, eight, 24 and 826. Is that correct, Madam Secretary?
Speaker 5: Yes, that's correct.
Speaker 1: All right, Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 5: Black.
Speaker 10: Clark, I.
Speaker 8: Espinosa No.
Speaker 6: Flynn i.
Speaker 5: Gillmor, I. Her dad, Cashman. Can each I.
Speaker 11: LOPEZ All right.
Speaker 5: We are new Ortega? No. SUSSMAN Hi, Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I please. Because voting and US results.
Speaker 5: Ten ice. Three days.
Speaker 1: Two nights, three knees. 823, 28, 24. 826 have been adopted. All right. We are going to go back to I believe is 811, Madam Secretary. 819 819. I'm sorry, Councilman Espinosa, will you please put 819 on the floor?

Speaker 1: Yep. 12 eyes. Eight or nine has passed. Congratulations. Okay. Councils now convene, reconvene and will resume its regular schedule. Councilman Espinosa, will you please put Councilman 18 on the floor?
Speaker 4: Sorry.
Speaker 1: I don't know what this little amendment is. I remember that council bill 810 to be placed upon final consideration do pass. It has been moved in second at great. The public hearing for Council Bill 18 is now open.
Speaker 1: May we have the staff report? Tracy Huggins.
Speaker 3: Good evening, Mr. President. Members of City Council. My name is Tracy Huggins. I'm the executive director of the Denver Urban Renewal Authority. Bringing forward for your consideration tonight the creation of an urban redevelopment area of the site previously occupied by the Emily Griffith Opportunity School in downtown Denver.
Speaker 3: And that is not doing what I want it to do. Yeah. The proposed urban redevelopment area is comprised of approximately 2.4 acres and is located in downtown Denver's cultural core, as defined in the 2007 downtown Denver area plan.
Speaker 3: The area is generally bounded by Welton Street to the northwest, 13th street to the northeast, Glenarm place to the southeast and 12th street to the southwest. The site is located in Council District nine. The urban redevelopment area was occupied by the Emily Griffith Opportunity School, a Denver public school, for nearly 100 years prior to its closure.
Speaker 3: The vocational school was named for Emily Griffith, a local teacher who advocated that persons of all ages and races should have the opportunity to learn and better themselves. The school was expanded several times and continued to operate at this location until its programs were to reload.
Speaker 3: Relocated to 1860 Lincoln Street beginning in 2013. Since relocating, the buildings have remained vacant. In May of 2016, the Emily Griffith Opportunity School was designated historic at the local level and restrictions were placed on the amount and nature of the possible redevelopment.
Speaker 3: Most of the structures fronting the Welton Street must be retained and setbacks were established for new development to ensure that the appearance and massing of the Welton Street buildings are preserved, any future development on the site will be subject to the design standards and guidelines approved by Denver City Council with the designation and must be approved by
Speaker 3: the Landmark Preservation Commission. A fundamental consideration in approving an urban redevelopment area is a finding by council that the area is blighted as required by the Colorado Urban Renewal Law. To this end, Durham commissioned Matrix Design Group to conduct a study to determine if the area is blighted.
Speaker 3: That study, dated July of 2017, has been filed with the city clerk as part of the record of this public hearing. In summary, the Blight study found the following five factors that constitute blighting conditions. Slum deteriorated or deteriorating structures.
Speaker 3: At the time, the field study was performed in September of 2016. Structures in the area were found to be in fair condition. Most issues found were related to broken windows in the school buildings. These broken windows were fairly widespread, but all had been boarded.
Speaker 3: Suggesting that ongoing maintenance is still occurring despite the vacancy of the campus. The frequency of broken windows continues to increase and the campus buildings are becoming increasingly dilapidated. An additional area of concern was noted with the concrete window lintels, which were severely crumbled in many locations, creating small piles of rubble on the ground underneath them.
Speaker 3: While the buildings on the Emily Griffith campus were not found to be in an advanced state of deterioration, it does remain ongoing and the buildings are receiving only stopgap maintenance rather than repairs. This situation leads to a finding of slum deteriorated or deteriorating structures.
Speaker 3: Predominance of defective or inadequate street layout. There is relatively poor circulation in the vicinity of the area relative to the rest of the central business district and civic center area. The area is immediately adjacent to the Colorado Convention Center, which is a sprawling structure occupying more than six full city blocks.
Speaker 3: The sheer size of the convention center breaks the continuity of the street grid in the area, with the exception of Stout Street, which passes underneath the convention center but does not serve any of the property in the study area.
Speaker 3: The Convention Center is one of the largest super blocks in the downtown area, but it is also important to note the presence of the courthouse and the detention center to the south, as well as the Denver Center for Performing Arts and Area Campus in the vicinity to the west.
Speaker 3: All three properties also break the continuity of the street grid, creating dead ends and a lack of redundancy that felt funnels traffic onto certain streets and creates longer walking distance for pedestrians. Overall, the urban renewal area encompasses an area of downtown that is somewhat isolated and removed from the surrounding area, both physically and psychologically.
Speaker 3: Pedestrian activity and private investment in this section of downtown is far lower than the rest of the central business district to the northeast. Although none of these isolation issues are expected to be corrected by the urban renewal process.
Speaker 3: They do represent a challenge to the redevelopment of the area because of the lack of connections to the surrounding street grid and poor provisions for local traffic. A finding of inadequate street layout has been made. Unsanitary or unsafe conditions.
Speaker 3: Records from the police department show that over the past five years there were 91 reported crimes in the area and in the surrounding rights of way, not including minor traffic incidents. Emergency responses are more frequent still, with one in fact being observed during the field study by our consultant.
Speaker 3: But it was not recorded as a reported crime of incidents that were recorded. Nine were various forms of assault. Three were street robberies, 23 vehicular hitting runs, and three were business burglaries. The remaining crimes were mostly related to drugs, criminal trespassing and larceny.
Speaker 3: These crime statistics represent an elevated of both violent and nonviolent crime, given the study area finding of unsanitary or unsafe conditions. Environmental contamination of buildings or property. The condition study notes the former Emily Griffith Griffith facility had an onsite body shop, including paint facilities, which is a use that is commonly associated with environmental contamination.
Speaker 3: The use of hazardous substances over many years technically represents a recognized environmental condition. In addition, an appraisal commissioned by the city and county of Denver in 2014 noted that, quote, The building contains asbestos and lead based paint, and the cost of remediation and repurposing while retaining the existing structure would be very significant and economically counterproductive.
Speaker 3: And quote the former presence of the auto body shop and the noted presence of asbestos and lead based paint support. A finding of environmental contamination of buildings or property. The existence of health, safety or welfare factors requiring high levels of municipal services or substantial physical underutilization or vacancy of sites, buildings or other improvements.
Speaker 3: Elevated crime levels revealed in police records already discussed coincide with high levels of municipal services. Emergency responses from the Denver Police Department are common in the study area. Additionally, relative to the rest of the central business district, the study area is substantially underutilized.
Speaker 3: The formerly the former Emily Griffith campus is a full city block that lies vacant compared to the rest of the central business district. There is very little history of private investment in the vicinity of the study area. Therefore, there is a finding of the existence of health, safety or welfare factories factors requiring high levels of municipal services
Speaker 3: or substantial physical underutilization or vacancy of sites, buildings or other improvements in the study area. These blight factors individually and collectively impair or arrest the sound growth of the municipality and constitute an economic and social liability and a menace to the public health, safety, morals or welfare of this area.
Speaker 3: In bringing forward this urban redevelopment plan, Dürer has sought to align the goals and objectives of the plan with the existing city plans and their approved supplements for the area, including the Denver Comprehensive Plan Plan 2000 Blueprint, Denver and the 27 Downtown Area Plan and reviewing the Urban Redevelopment Plan.
Speaker 3: City planning staff found that the Urban Redevelopment Plan conforms to Plan 2000 by furthering several citywide objectives, policy and action in the plan, including the conservation of raw materials by promoting efforts to adapt existing buildings for new uses rather than destroying them.
Speaker 3: Conservation of land by promoting infill development within Denver at sites where service and infrastructure are already in place. Encouraging quality infill development that is consistent with the character of the surrounding neighborhood, that offers opportunities for increased density and more amenities.
Speaker 3: And that broadens the variety of compatible uses, promotion of standards and incentives for design that enhance the quality and character of the city, including the preservation of significant historic structures and features. Preservation of Denver's architectural and design legacies while allowing new ones to evolve.
Speaker 3: Leveraging city resources to protect Denver's landmarks and eligible historic buildings. And to avoid their demolition. And ensuring downtown's future as Denver's preeminent center for business, tourism and entertainment, including through continued support of the re-use of historic buildings in and around downtown.
Speaker 3: Blueprint. DENVER Denver's Integrated Land Use and transportation plan adopted by the City Council in 2002, identifies the urban redevelopment area as being located within within an area of change with the concept land use of downtown. Blueprint Denver recognizes downtown as the centerpiece of the city and region with the highest intensity of uses in Colorado.
Speaker 3: Blueprint Denver further states that downtown has the most intense land use, development and transportation systems, and the vision is to continue more of the same type of high quality office, hotel, retail, residential and mixed use development. The Urban Redevelopment Plan is consistent with the intent and vision for areas of change and the downtown concept land use.
Speaker 3: The Downtown Area plan identifies several strategies and objectives to serve as a tool to help community leaders, decision makers and citizens build upon downtown's assets and guide future development. The long term vision seeks to achieve a vibrant, economically healthy, growing and vital downtown through a sustained effort in each of these elements.
Speaker 3: Prosperous, walkable, diverse. Distinctive and green. The Urban Redevelopment area is located within the cultural core, which is generally defined in the downtown area plan as the area encompassing the convention center. Denver Performing Arts Center, Civic Center Park, Denver Public Library, Denver Art Museum and various municipal and governmental buildings.
Speaker 3: A key recommendation identified in the plan calls for the creation of a mixed use public private development that includes the Emily Griffith Opportunity School and other complementary uses. Though the Opportunity School moved to another location. The Urban Redevelopment Plan is consistent with the recommendation for mixed use development in this area.
Speaker 3: The proposed urban redevelopment plan seeks to eliminate blight through the creation of the Emily Griffith Upper Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment Area. Creation of the area authorizes Dora to seek property owner and developer interest in redevelopment projects within the area and provide tax increment financing in support of those efforts.
Speaker 3: The main goals of the Urban Redevelopment Plan are to eliminate blight, renew and improve the character of the area, encourage commercial, residential and retail development. Encourage and protect existing development more effectively. Use underutilized land. Encourage land use patterns that result in a more environmentally sustainable city.
Speaker 3: Encourage land use patterns where pedestrians are safe and welcome. Encourage participation of existing property owners in the redevelopment of their property. Encourage high and moderate density development where appropriate. Encourage the re-use of existing buildings, including historic preservation and adaptive reuse.
Speaker 3: And improve. And provide employment centers near transit. This urban redevelopment plan does not include any approved projects. The entire site was purchased by Stonebridge Companies in May of 2017. Stonebridge, who is a hotel developer, is in the process of working with a variety of stakeholders to determine the optimal development plan for this site.
Speaker 3: Once this process is complete and to the extent the proposed project is determined to require tax increment assistance, an amendment to this urban redevelopment plan, along with new agreements with the other taxing entities, would be required to add an approved project in order to preserve the opportunity to fully utilized tax increment.
Speaker 3: The plan approves the use of sales and property tax increment financing. The plan is presented this evening, approves a property tax increment area and sales tax increment that is coterminous with the urban redevelopment area. So it's really important to note that even though we are asking you to approve the plan and approve the use of tax increment
Speaker 3: , we are not authorized to use any tax increment until such time as we would come forward and ask for an amendment to the plan to add an approved project. We are preserving the opportunity to allow for the tax increment to be an available tool.
Speaker 3: But again, we are asking you to take this action. Are not authorized to actually spend any of the increment that we may collect. There are a number of other findings required by the Colorado Urban Renewal Law, and those include that the urban redevelopment area described in the plan is found and declared to be a blighted area as
Speaker 3: defined in the Colorado Urban Renewal Law. And the conditions of blight constitute an economic and social liability and a menace to the public health, safety, morals or welfare. This is a legislative finding by City Council. Based upon the blight study and other evidence that has presented, has been presented to you that the boundaries of the urban redevelopment
Speaker 3: area have been drawn as narrowly as feasible to accomplish the planning and development objectives of the plan. If any individuals or families are displaced from dwelling units as a result of adoption or implementation of the Emily Griffith Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment Plan.
Speaker 3: A feasible method exists for the relocation of those individuals or families in accordance with the Act. If business concerns are displaced by the adoption or implementation of the Emily Griffith Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment Plan, a feasible method exists for the relocation of those business current business concerns in accordance with the ACT.
Speaker 3: This area in does not contain any residents nor businesses. Therefore, they will not be displaced as a result of any project that would be undertaken. Written notice of this public hearing has been provided to all property owners, residents and owners of business concerns.
Speaker 3: In the resident in the resolution setting this public hearing, city council requested Dura to undertake this task. Written notice was mailed first class mail to all property owners, residents and owners of business concerns in the Emily Griffith Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment area at least 30 days prior to this public hearing.
Speaker 3: No more than 120 days have passed since the first public hearing before City Council on the plan. Tonight is the first public hearing before Council on this plan. This is the first consideration of an urban redevelopment plan for this site.
Speaker 3: And this the city council has not previously failed to approve an urban redevelopment plan for this site. Again, this is the first consideration by City Council of an urban redevelopment plan for this site. And as such, the requirement to wait at least 24 months into any prior public hearing is inapplicable.
Speaker 3: Conformance with the Denver Comprehensive Plan on July July 19, 2017, the Denver Planning Board unanimously found that the Urban Redevelopment Plan conforms with the Denver Comprehensive Plan and applicable supplements. A letter to the effect has been submitted as part of the record of this hearing, and Dura would request that City Council concur with that finding.
Speaker 3: The Emily Griffith Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment Plan will afford maximum opportunity consistent with the sound needs of Denver as a whole for the rehabilitation or redevelopment of the Emily Emily Griffith Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment Area by Private Enterprise.
Speaker 3: And again, while we are not requesting approval of a project tonight, the site is owned by a private entity that intends to redevelop the property once a redevelopment project has been determined. The Urban Redevelopment Plan does not consist of an area of open land which is to be developed for residential uses or any any agricultural land.
Speaker 3: The Urban Renewal Authority has notified the boards of each other taxing entity whose incremental property tax revenue would be allocated under the Urban Redevelopment Plan, and an agreement has been negotiated governing the sharing of incremental property tax revenue.
Speaker 3: There are two other property taxing districts. Denver Public Schools and Urban Drainage and Flood Control District during has negotiated agreements with both DPS and urban drainage, which allow DAERA to collect any increment in any incremental property taxes generated in the urban redevelopment area, but does not authorize the use of their respective portions of the property tax increment
Speaker 3: on any future project. Similar to the way that we would work with City Council at such time, if ever as a project is identified. These agreements will be renegotiated to reflect the impact the project may have on the their respective ability to deliver services to the urban redevelopment area.
Speaker 3: Additionally, if the Urban Redevelopment Plan is not amended to add a project by December 31st of 2020, the agreements terminate and any amount of incremental property taxes collected by DRA would be returned to the original taxing entities. The city and county of Denver can adequately adequately finance and agreements are in place to finance any additional city and
Speaker 3: county of Denver infrastructure and services required to serve development within the Emily Griffith Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment Area for the period during which the incremental property taxes are paid to the authority. The plan allows for a cooperative agreements between the city and borough to address additional infrastructure requirements should they arise.
Speaker 3: And finally, it is important to note that no acquisition by eminent domain is authorized by the plan. The slide you've been waiting for. In closing, Dora is very pleased to be working with the city to bring forward this urban redevelopment plan for this very important site.
Speaker 3: The Emily Griffith Opportunity School Urban Redevelopment Plan captures many citywide goals, objectives and strategies that are found in the Denver Comprehensive Plan 2000 Blueprint, Denver and the Downtown Area Plan. We look forward to working with all parties to bring about the revitalization opportunities outlined in these plans, and I would thank you for your favorable consideration and I
Speaker 3: will be happy to answer any questions when the time is appropriate.
Speaker 1: All right. Thank you, Tracy Huggins. Efficient, effective as always. All right. We have no speakers this evening, so I'm going to call you up, Tracy, because we're in the question portion. Once you confer with. Hello. Okay.
Speaker 3: Yes, sir.
Speaker 1: Yes. So you made this abundantly clear. But I think it's important for folks who are, you know, at home listening and been following this project that we are simply setting the base for the tax increment financing option, but we are not actually focusing on a project.
Speaker 1: That is correct. I just want you to and tell folks what setting the base actually means.
Speaker 3: Sure. So under urban renewal law, we are able to capture the incremental sales and property taxes that a project area generates in order to provide a mechanism for financing a future project. This is a fairly unique circumstance where the property right now is is tax exempt and is is has been has a taxable assessed value of zero
Speaker 3: because of its previous ownership by Denver Public Schools under the law. There are two times when the assessor looks to determine what the actual taxable value is. One is in late December, the other is August 25th because the purchase transaction occurred in May.
Speaker 3: By taking action tonight, they at the assessor will look back to the value last certified in December of 2016 and find that the value is zero. If we wait until after August, that sale transaction will be recorded against the property and the property will have lost its tax exempt status.
Speaker 3: So the value related to the sale will then instead go into the base as opposed to the increment.
Speaker 1: That's right. All right. Thank you, Joan. Okay. Okay, great. That concludes our questions. Counsel Bill 818 is now closed. Look for comments by members of council. So this is this project is in my district. I have been a part of it from the very beginning, working with stakeholders, working with the Denver Public Schools and historic Denver to
Speaker 1: ensure that the preservation of this building stays intact. Yet revitalization and opportunities are also a part of it. I am in favor of this because I think this is a good, good move for us as a city, and it allows us to move forward with possible plans of expansion of tourism and our downtown revitalization in this part
Speaker 1: of the area. So we want to remind council we get another crack at this when a project is actually before us, a project is not before us. Again, we are just setting the base. We are setting the area.
Speaker 1: So with that, no, no other comments. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 5: Clare by Espinosa, i Flynn.
Speaker 8: I.
Speaker 5: Gilmore i. Herndon, i. Cashman Can Eat. Lopez All right. New Ortega like I black. Mr. President.
Speaker 1: I put Kosovo voting in thus results.
Speaker 5: 13 Eyes.
Speaker 1: 13 eyes council bill 810 has passed. Thank you, Tracey. Thank you. All right. Moving on to the.