Meeting: DenverCityCouncil_04112016
Date: 2016-04-11

---

Speaker 10: And we are fully in support of this reason for this site. I think it's important for city council to prove this reason to continue the growth and activation of the neighborhood. Increased height means increased density near a light rail station, which then means increased street activation.
Speaker 10: And usually when you get this, you get better architecture and better materials and design when you have the increased height and density. One thing that was mentioned earlier that I think everyone should note is that this developer, Camden, is typically a long term holder, which means they put a lot more money into their products and a lot
Speaker 10: more care into how it's designed, how it's operated, and how it fits into the neighborhood. I don't think that is something.
Speaker 3: That should be taken lightly.
Speaker 10: Density within walking distance to a light rail station, as you all know, is very important. And I think we would be doing ourselves a disservice not to take advantage of that at this location with a great site and a great developer.
Speaker 10: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Jamie Lee, go.
Speaker 4: Good evening, City Council. Thanks for the opportunity to speak. I'm Jamilah. I serve as the executive director of the Rhino Art District, the Rhino Business Improvement District and the Rhino General Improvement District. And we are also the registered neighborhood organization for the neighborhood rhino has been very involved in working with developers and as has already been mentioned
Speaker 4: tonight, we're seeing a tremendous influx. We're talking to developers on a daily basis about what's going on. And when we come across a developer like Camden who wants to sit down at the table with us and find out what's most important to the neighborhood, we are very responsive to having a conversation about how we make a development
Speaker 4: fit into the neighborhood that meets the needs of everybody involved. And that's exactly what's happened with Camden since last fall. They've been at the table. They've listened. They've responded every single time to our our requests of what's important to us.
Speaker 4: And I think every time we look at a development of a parcel, particularly in a neighborhood like Rhino, where it is literally being built out of the ground right now, at this moment, every single development, every single conversation requires thoughtful consideration.
Speaker 4: We've heard the word precedent. There was a lot of conversation about that in the zoning meeting. I think we as a neighborhood are taking each development on its merit, looking how it knits into the overall fabric of rhino.
Speaker 4: That's what's most important to the neighborhood. We've heard the neighborhood tell us that ground floor activation space for artists, affordable live work space, affordable places for for people to to build a life, having green space, having art space, having transparency on the storefronts are all very important, especially on our main arteries of Larimer and Walnut Street and
Speaker 4: Camden, as we've gone through the process of conversation over the last several months, has brought that to the table. Live work units that are affordable price for artists to keep them in the neighborhood, small space for for restaurants, for galleries and a design that really knits into the overall fabric.
Speaker 4: And as rhino as a whole as a neighborhood densify. And you know, we are having conversations led by Councilman Brooks right now about up zoning around the station. We are not seeing pushback on height. What we're seeing is a demand from the neighborhood that that transparency and activation and the ability to create a walkable neighborhood that's about
Speaker 4: people, that's about bikes, that doesn't require people to get in cars and go places is most important. And that's why we pushed Camden to really be thoughtful about that. And they've responded on every level. So from a neighborhood perspective and representing all the different voices, we are here to say we support what Camden is doing and we're
Speaker 4: we look forward to working with them for the long term as long term players and the rhino. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Laura Phelps Rogers.
Speaker 4: Hi, welcome. Thank you for having me. Speaker at city council, I agree with everything that everybody said, but I did come here to protest a portion of this proposal, which is the 55 steps, that 55 foot setback for the view, the sightline.
Speaker 4: I also presented you with a small packet. At the bottom of that packet are two photographs that were taken from 29th Street into a development. They show you what a five story would look look like from the center of the street, from a three story to a five story transition, and then Photoshopped in at approximately 55 to
Speaker 4: 60 feet is what you would see. So I own the property immediately across the street from this parcel on Larimer, there is a lovely historic building right across from me that's included in those images in the packet of you looking north and looking south, which shows that there really are no five storey buildings yet in this area
Speaker 4: . So not for a long ways to the south and not for a long ways to the north. So it will be an entire city block will be five stories right there. So as it is currently said, I do support this change from the different types of zoning.
Speaker 4: But what it does include is three stories literally on Larimer and five stories literally on Walnut. There is a dividing line of the alley for most properties. In this case, it's unusual because the back alley was vacated. So again, on my presentation, it sure sort of gives you the story of what I would see if I was
Speaker 4: standing in the middle of the street. And it's quite extreme. I mean, I lose all of the blue sky. So what really is at issue, though, is I had a conversation with this gentleman here, and I don't think that this is the time and the place to hear about it.
Speaker 4: But literally when the first sign was put up, I called this gentleman and asked him, Does this zone change comply with the existing zoning in terms of height? Three stories on Larimer, five stories on Walnut. He replied to me, Yes.
Speaker 4: And in part he was telling the truth. But there was. Information in that the intent of this group was to take come forward 75 feet, nearly 75 feet from the alley, changing what you see when you were either standing in the middle of the street, across the street or from anywhere else.
Speaker 4: So the only thing I object to is that the zoning be changed to allow that five storeys to come up to 55 feet on the Larimer side, that it be required to meet what the zoning requires at 125 feet.
Speaker 4: And one of the reasons I would like you to either consider that or postpone this decision is because of the misinformation that was received. So I haven't really had the time to prepare a grand presentation about why I think this is important.
Speaker 4: And it's, it's it's it's a difficult situation. I'm not the best editor, as you can probably tell, even from the stuff I send them. My eyes are not exactly 100% perfect, but I've tried so.
Speaker 3: Mr. Rogers, your 3 minutes is up now.
Speaker 4: All right. Thank you.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 3: That concludes our speakers. Now, time questions from members of Council Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: And so you guys and I'm sorry to my colleagues, but I've been waiting a long time for this one to come before council. And so bear with me. I've got questions for a lot of people. Let's start with CPD.
Speaker 5: So can you go to the Slide seven? Actually, you go to the planning board slide. And this sort of dovetails into my comments earlier. This was a split vote planning board. And planning board is far less political than this body up here.
Speaker 5: A lot more. Technical there's criteria that set their voting restrictions. The same criteria applies here. But our only obligation as council is to hear this request not to not necessarily to approve it. We're not mandated in that way.
Speaker 5: So. That said this was a split vote, five three. And when this was presented at plan, the slide set was considerably different, was it not? No, it was. Go to the slide review criteria.
Speaker 12: So. So there's one slight difference. And it's.
Speaker 5: It's that one.
Speaker 12: Slide so that there's one slide.
Speaker 5: So this slide was basically written based on the comments that I am going to be illustrating here tonight. It's really to circumvent the case that I am going to be making for a line in a plan having meaning.
Speaker 5: And so a lot was spoken here about the the advisory nature of these plans. But you do have a slide here. And bear with me again. You showed the 2009 plan that clearly marks. It is Slide 16 that clearly shows that in 2009, this property was bisected by a line in a small area plan and that the
Speaker 5: higher the defined area was 1 to 3 stories. Two slides later, slide 18, we get to this site and now two years later, this site is still bisected by that line. But we've now changed and through a public process, three stories define half of that site in five stories the other side of that site in.
Speaker 5: And so there is a split vote on planning board because of this. And you spoke to it in his comments, in his briefing about this line and the meaning of this line. So going back to the slide that was added, it was all about the the the the language days basically taking priority.
Speaker 5: But we as a people don't necessarily we know what we're drawing and these have meanings. So now to an actual question. Where is that? You mentioned that on when you were doing that slide that was added that there was actually was the next one after you mentioned that there was language about the average height of a pedestrian
Speaker 5: in the neighborhood plan. Is that correct?
Speaker 12: This the slide?
Speaker 5: No, it was the one after the review criteria slide that was added. It wasn't you mentioned it, but it's not stated in the language that's on the slide. So I just wanted to confirm that that language, in fact, exists in the applicable plan.
Speaker 12: So do you want the language from the Northeast Downtown Neighborhoods Plan?
Speaker 5: Does it say that it references the view from an average height person in the right away?
Speaker 12: Are you referencing this slide? The northeast, downtown neighborhoods swing.
Speaker 5: I don't know. Just say it there.
Speaker 12: Okay. So I see. I see.
Speaker 5: It. Is this slide? Yes.
Speaker 12: So you're asking me if an average high pedestrian use and specifically.
Speaker 5: Stated that in the plan, it said that you're basing it on a you had a reference height of the average height person.
Speaker 12: Right. So that gets to the interpretation of the plan.
Speaker 5: The interpretation. So that language does not exist in the plan?
Speaker 12: I don't think it does. I mean, I could do a word search on average height pedestrian, but that again, it gets to the the fact that a plan is providing guidance and advisory. And we have to say.
Speaker 5: You just added criteria, did you not, about the average height person. Like, why is that the average wise person and not the person on the second floor of a adjacent property or the third floor adjacent mx3.
Speaker 12: Right. Because there is a lot of language in the plan that talks about street level activation and the pedestrian experience and urban design from the from the street level. All right. There's a whole lot of language about that.
Speaker 12: And so as a pedestrian walking down the street, we found that the the plan thought that that was very important. Okay. We look to the average height pedestrian to see what, you know, where five storeys would be perceived.
Speaker 5: Okay. And then maybe the architect would answer this better. Yeah. So could we get Bobby from Capehart? And I am asking you because you specifically mentioned the concern about the pedestrian on the street. So if that was the concern, why doesn't the 55 foot step back, turn the corner on 32nd and third?
Speaker 2: Because the high transmission is specifically limited to Larimer and not necessarily the pedestrian connections on 32nd and third. As far as the three story limitation.
Speaker 5: So we're only concerned about because you drew some some renderings here that show to show the egregious ness of a ten foot setback, which is which is pretty substantial. Correct. But what you're saying is that's only a concern on Larimer, even though the better part mean a significant chunk of this is well beyond this this this dividing
Speaker 5: line that we were just discussing. Does not that does that line not speak to the intent of where three story was appropriate or not? And couldn't you have turned the corner so that at least that larger 55 foot setback basically applied visually from the street, as CPD talked about.
Speaker 2: Only in the sense that all the conversations revolved around and all the language, as I understand it, from the neighborhood code or the neighborhood comp plan. Talk about the transition at one. Not necessarily on any of the connecting streets going backwards.
Speaker 2: So it's really about the pedestrian experience along Larimer. And necessarily. 32nd, 33rd.
Speaker 5: CPD. Could you bring up slide seven? So yes, this property had its alley vacated. And my concern will be later on as far as precedent and what sort of precedent this set. And I think there's some assurance that, no, this won't set a precedent because of the difference between this site and the adjacent properties.
Speaker 5: So this slide right here shows that both adjacent properties to the north and to the south actually still have their existing alley intact. So the defined characteristic if we if we. Is that those. I'm pretty sure but maybe I'm wrong CPD or I don't see those adjacent parcels getting the same dividing line and that the character of
Speaker 5: the those properties to the north and to the south along Walnut or along Larimer would maintain a three storey around that, you know. And so is our concern truly just Larimer Street or is it a three story built environment versus our five story built environment perimeter?
Speaker 12: I guess I don't understand the question. I mean, we looked at the plan. The plan says three stories on Larimer Street.
Speaker 5: So then this would, in fact, be acceptable on either on in either area, north or south, for the same reason, because the concern is only Larimer.
Speaker 12: So are you are you talking about other properties?
Speaker 5: Well, if our concern is only Larimer Street in the appearance of three stories, so either property to the South don't have they only have frontage on Larimer. I mean, they also have the frontage on 32nd and third as well.
Speaker 5: So is it acceptable on those two properties to define this, their their subsequent rezoning on either of those two parcels with the same 55 foot setback? Because the concern is only Larimer.
Speaker 12: So, you know, I'm not in a position to opine on a rezoning.
Speaker 5: Well, how would this criteria be different for those two adjacent properties?
Speaker 12: Well, it's a different property to start with.
Speaker 5: Is Larimer not? Do they not front Larimer.
Speaker 12: It would, yeah. Fronts Larimer. But again, it's a different property owner. It's a.
Speaker 5: So how does that affect the zoning and the physical things that you look at at CPD?
Speaker 12: So so let me let me answer your first question. Let me just try to get the.
Speaker 5: K I just trying to figure out how Larimer differs between 33rd and 34th and how it differs from 32nd to 31st than it does from 33rd to 32nd.
Speaker 12: So Larimer Street itself, the street isn't different. It's the land on the street, right? It's the ownership, it's the block configuration, it's the alley configuration, it's the existing zoning. It is a whole host of other things that have to be considered when when looking at a rezoning application.
Speaker 12: So again, I'm not in a position to opine on some other property. Should that property come forward with a rezoning application, I would likely be in front of you giving a presentation. But again, I'm not in a position to opine on some other property.
Speaker 12: Okay.
Speaker 5: So now my next questions are pretty brief. Todd Triggs with Camden. How many units would be lost if the line were moved from third to Mid-Block? Essentially the center line of the alley.
Speaker 10: You'd probably lose about 30 units.
Speaker 5: 30 units. How many of these did the community inquire about? Affordable. I heard mention of affordable live work. What percent army will those units hit?
Speaker 10: It is not anything to do with a percent of gross, am I? It's that when we develop live work units, they are typically larger in size. So if you rent a unit for 600 to 600 square feet, it would be priced about, say, $2.30 a square foot.
Speaker 10: Once you get a unit that is a live work unit that's 1400 to 800 square feet, all you really gain is additional space. You're not getting additional bedroom, bathroom, other things. So the price for that unit gets priced a lot lower than what a typical apartment would be.
Speaker 5: Okay, so it wouldn't be at 230 a square foot for that unit. How many of those units.
Speaker 10: In the dollar 75 range or something like that? So it's it's a significant.
Speaker 5: Difference in how many of those units do you plan at this point?
Speaker 10: We are still in the process of trying to figure that out. Once we get our zoning squared away, we'll be able to determine how much retail, where it lays out the live work units where they're at. You know, we'd like to do probably ten, 9 to 10 units, something like that.
Speaker 10: But.
Speaker 5: And then how many how many affordable units that region am I? 100 or 60 or 80%. Ami, will you have in this project?
Speaker 10: No, everything's. It's a market rate project. Yeah.
Speaker 5: Okay. Thank you. Josh Katz from the owners. Were you approached by any non-profits or land trusts for this land? Because it's it was a bid process and we got around 20 offers. No nonprofits? No. Nothing of the sort.
Speaker 5: So how just a sampling of how egregious were those other proposals that this one stood out? There was about six that were in the same dollar range. Mm hmm. More or less. Then below that, they dropped off significantly.
Speaker 12: Another 14 numbers might not be exact, but it's on that magnitude. And then we had.
Speaker 5: One offer that was higher than Camden. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Uh, Ryan Seeley. Just a quick question. You forgot to provide your address.
Speaker 12: I'm also based out of Houston, Texas, at 11 Greenway, Suite 2400.
Speaker 5: So you're part of the development team, is that right? Yes, sir. Thank you. Ryan Legato or Jamie. Like, sorry. Like, oh, sorry. So you mentioned affordable. What is affordable mean to you?
Speaker 4: So in talking with candidates that Todd mentioned, they noted that it's about a dollar 75, a square foot for some of these units. And the way that they were looking to design them is two stories potentially with their garage door on the main floor, live above, work below, be able to open your garage door and sort of
Speaker 4: be open for a first Friday type environment. Obviously, as we look at Artspace throughout Reno, you know, we just had the binder on Blake, just put in 13 artist studios there at $2 a square foot. And, you know, they all they all sold out.
Speaker 4: That's sort of kind of the threshold, I think, of paying for kind of artists. This is a work live space. So that was just for actual workspace, that $2 a square foot those people have to pay to live someplace else.
Speaker 4: So when you can combine your work live space at somewhere around a dollar 75, a square foot, you're in the affordable range for kind of the creative sector to be able to actually make a living out of those spaces.
Speaker 4: When you put in things like the garage doors where they can actually have people come in to their space on a first Friday or something like that, you're kind of opening up a new realm of possibility for how we keep artists in the neighborhood as.
Speaker 5: They discussed lease provisions. Because I have lived work in a development that I pushed for the same thing. But the leases don't. They don't. They don't. They don't support that. Do you have actual guarantees that these will only be leased to people that will operate a business out of them?
Speaker 4: Very good question is the question I asked Camden when they came forward with those opportunities, because I said, what types of users are what is the process by which you select users for this? And they said generally it's a first come, first serve basis.
Speaker 4: And so what I put out there was would you be willing to enter into a partnership with the Bid Park District, so forth, where we could help fill those spaces for you? Because we are right now in the process of collecting information about artists who need space, what their requirements are, you know, what they're looking for.
Speaker 4: And we're beginning to pair those artists already with developers who are building space. So we'd like to do the same for Camden and basically come to them with here's a list of 20 artists that are interested or ready to pay or looking for the space.
Speaker 4: Will you give them preference? And Camden said they would be thrilled to work with us on that. We've seen other bids do it really well so we can take a model from someplace else. And that's something we're not just working on with Camden while we're working on with all of our property owners.
Speaker 5: Okay. And then last one. You mentioned design. So what assurances do you have that they'll memorialize these requests?
Speaker 4: You know, we the letters. So there was a letter after our series of meetings that we've gone through with them. And we have seen the conceptual change over time. And I think the last conceptual we saw was probably in January or February at our last meeting where they incorporated a lot of our requests.
Speaker 4: At that time we said, okay, great. We, you know, we've sort of gotten to a place where we're comfortable with this. They put that in writing to us. We in turn, and our letter that is in your packet wrote saying we support this on kind of these conditions.
Speaker 4: So we can't, you know, obviously we can't tie them to do anything, but we're hopeful. And given the fact they've put quite a bit of energy into working with the neighborhood thus far and responding to us, we're obviously very hopeful that, you know, they're good on their word and they carry through and we'll be there, you know
Speaker 4: , vocally supporting them if they do and causing a ruckus if if they they don't do.
Speaker 5: You do know that once this happens, this is a use by right development and no ruckus in the world really changes that if they don't follow through with their plan.
Speaker 4: Sure. Absolutely. We get that. But you know what we're seeing? We've seen we have some incredible developers doing tremendous things on their own. And right now and we have some developers doing really not great stuff who are who have done really not great stuff.
Speaker 4: And even on some of those developments where the neighborhood was, you know, didn't have an opportunity to participate in a discussion about some of that, we are now going back and it's pretty incredible. I think the tide has turned in right now where people see if you're not kind of in on the partnership thing with the neighborhood
Speaker 4: and kind of supporting the neighborhood character they are trying to work back in. So we're seeing developers that maybe didn't put in ground floor activation that are trying to see how they can turn a unit or two into a gallery space or a flex space or how we can mural that first floor to tie it into the
Speaker 4: fabric of the neighborhood better, you know, and working in every angle we can. So we can only do as much as we can do. We are working on efforts to do design guidelines and design overlay and exploring all that, and we are hopeful we can get that done.
Speaker 4: And we use some of the things that were important to us from those discussions in talking to Camden. So we're hopeful that in time we will have more of a lever to be able. To, you know, persuade or, you know, have developers sort of conform to the character.
Speaker 4: But in the short term, where we're doing the best we can to create a partnership with people as development happens so intensely fast.
Speaker 5: All right. Thank you. No further questions.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman, I know that Councilman Brooks.
Speaker 5: Hey. All right. Since we had a whole 17 minutes of questions on the line, I just want to get our legal opinion around that. So, Mr. Lucero. So this is an interesting issue that has come up a couple of times.
Speaker 5: And I think it's important for, I think council to know I think it's important for the public to know when we draw lines within our planning documents, what kind of legal requirement are does the city have does the city council have to stay within those lines?
Speaker 5: Thank you, Councilman Brooks. And good evening. Members of Council Nathan Lucero, assistant city attorney and. Again, when.
Speaker 12: You're reviewing a rezoning application.
Speaker 5: The criteria is whether or.
Speaker 9: Not.
Speaker 5: The request is consistent.
Speaker 12: With city adopted plans. And so consistency is is something less.
Speaker 5: Than conformance or compliance. So.
Speaker 12: The lines that are that you see sort of drawn on a piece of paper are really just there as guidance. And again, as.
Speaker 5: Mr. Daley explained.
Speaker 12: The real crux is in the intent of that.
Speaker 5: Plan and what that means to city.
Speaker 12: Council and whether or not the application, again.
Speaker 5: Is consistent with the intent of the of the city adopted plan. Okay. So legally in making in our criteria, it's it's we are not held to that a legal standard that if we're not on the line in this particular rezoning, we are out of terms and in the legal requirement.
Speaker 12: So just to be clear, the line that's drawn in the plan is, is, again, just just guidance.
Speaker 5: And it's not regulatory and it's not prescriptive. Okay. On that line of questioning, Stephen, Ali. For neighbors who are listening. Because, you know, I think it's important that it be clear for folks and that that's the thing I want to be transmitted tonight, that it's clear.
Speaker 5: Is there an opportunity for or have you seen an opportunity? I feel like I'm doing five plans right now. And we do talk about a lot of lines. Very rarely do we put those lines into the words of the plan.
Speaker 5: Right. The the the content of the plan. And so is there an opportunity to maybe back up those lines or how can there be some assurance for neighbors? Right.
Speaker 12: So as you know, we are going through CPD is leading an effort to amend the plans around the 38th Blake Station area. And that could I could look like a change to a map. It could look like more clarity in the text as to the goals to the intent of that language itself.
Speaker 12: There are different ways to present building heights in a plan. For example, the Cherry Creek Area plan shows a gradient and it really leaves the interpretation open and does really rely on the intent and the language. And so there are a couple of ways to change the map through a conversation with the community.
Speaker 12: Leave the map alone, provide more clarity in the text to provide that guidance.
Speaker 5: The gradient is is where you think CPD is moving towards?
Speaker 12: Well, I mean, CPD likes to get guidance from the community. And so I think, you know, the gradient has worked, but there was a lot of discussion. Yeah. Into Krieg about what the gradient really means. Think so? You know, we have a toolbox.
Speaker 5: Great. Couple of quick questions from the developer owner's rep. Did you guys get a chance to talk to I know we have Rhino, which is you know, it's it's part of five points, but it's the new brand of five points and very little residents in the specific area of Rhino right now.
Speaker 5: Did you guys get a chance to talk to Curtis Park?
Speaker 10: Yes, we did meet with Curtis Part. His name was Su Glassmaker.
Speaker 5: Yes. And and we all know SU because SU is the lead, what I would call architect for us when we're looking at design on Welton. So did she give you a thumbs up or down or just kind of stay neutral?
Speaker 5: Because I didn't see a letter from her?
Speaker 10: No. When we met with her, we met her on site. We walked the site with her and, you know, talked about our development and what we proposed to do and the zoning that we were going after. And she said that she recommended that we get with the Rhino Group, meet with them, and depending on whichever way they
Speaker 10: were leaning to go, they would probably follow their, you know.
Speaker 5: Okay, that's great. Yeah. Jimi? Yeah, please.
Speaker 4: Sorry. I just wanted to jump in at Curtis Park did reach out to us, and they did express to us that they would follow our lead on this one and that they would not oppose that they would remain either, you know, just neutral or, you know, they opted not not to write a letter of support, but they
Speaker 4: said they would follow us. Great.
Speaker 5: Thank you. One more question around this topic. So we did talk about affordable housing and our typical definition of affordable is some sort of subsidized housing that hits different army levels. Rhino definitely needs affordable housing and that's a part of the 30th and Blake revisioning a station area plan so we're looking at wondering if you'd be open
Speaker 5: to meeting with the Office of Economic Development and looking at some of those units to make sure they hit those affordable levels.
Speaker 10: You know something we'd have we need more time to consider that. I mean, right now, it's hard for me to say because I don't know what those rents are based on our pricing, but the seller of what.
Speaker 5: We're buying the land at.
Speaker 10: That wasn't taken into consideration at that time. So, I mean, that's not a whole new, you know, line of negotiations with everybody.
Speaker 5: I think so. But you we will talk about it and have a meeting to discuss them.
Speaker 10: I think if it fell within our what we're in our pro forma numbers that we've already kind of, you know, considered we would I don't know. Do you know what those numbers are, what the rents are or.
Speaker 5: Yeah, I mean, we can get down into the details of what the performer is. I'm not asking about that. I'm asking would you be willing to to meet to talk about me?
Speaker 10: I'm always willing to meet. All right. I just I can't commit.
Speaker 5: Thank you. And then the last quick question is I'm sorry, I forgot your name. Yeah, Laura. I just wanted one. Who's. Who's Councilman Garcia.
Speaker 4: You know, when.
Speaker 3: He's Mr. Right? Mr. Rogers. Mr. Rogers. Mr. Rogers. Mr. Rogers. I need to come up to the microphone.
Speaker 4: I'm sorry, Councilman Brooks. I haven't had the opportunity to meet you. And I was very active in the Upper Larimer Neighborhood Association, and I did sort of part ways in terms of my interest in the organization, because initially when it was founded, the primary focus appeared to me to be more on the Brighton corridor.
Speaker 4: Yeah. And even still that's where the offices are. And there's a great deal of change as everyone has seen on the bright corridor. So historically, if you sort of look at some of the architecture I presented in my portfolio that I presented to you my packet, there's a drastic difference between the bright corridor and Blake Walnut and
Speaker 4: Larimer, which are an industrial neighborhood that was mixed with existing. Excuse me, ma'am. Architecture.
Speaker 5: I was just asking. I mean, I hear that and I appreciate that. I was just asking, do you know who Councilman Garcia is?
Speaker 4: I do not. Okay at this time. When I looked up District one, that's who actually says. And so I didn't have the opportunity to direct. Got it.
Speaker 5: And I know that's okay. I just wanted to make sure that you knew who your councilperson was and that Councilman Garcia served the time back.
Speaker 4: I do appreciate it. And thank you for the extra moment. Just.
Speaker 5: Yeah, yeah. Thank you. All right.
Speaker 3: All right. There we go. 30 minutes of questions. Any other questions on 139? Public hearing is now closed. Comments. Councilman Brooks.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. This is a this is an interesting, you know, zoning proposal. Obviously, there are some some issues. I got a chance to talk to Joel Noble, who actually lives in Curtis Park neighborhood and is on planning board and voted against this because of his interpretation that potentially the plan might be misleading.
Speaker 5: And I certainly appreciate that and certainly appreciate the other conversations that I've had with other council folks and folks in the community about what kind of precedent that this will begin to set for others in the community. Again, I will be supporting this, and one of the reasons that I will be supporting this is because I don't
Speaker 5: believe in overprescribing our plan documents for several reasons. But it does require more conversation when stable neighborhoods are looking for, they're looking for assurance. And so what does that mean and how do we provide that from community planning and development?
Speaker 5: I don't think assurance is being overprescribed and requiring that our plans be a letter of law. Couple of things that this group did that that I really appreciate. Number one, there's no neighborhood group tougher, more rigorous than Curtis Park.
Speaker 5: And they went to them first, which is great. Curtis Park is a neighborhood that is not. They do. I wouldn't say that they're not pro-development. They have $300 million of redevelopment coming on Welton in a joint effort. And so for them to be supportive and take on two rhinos is one thing.
Speaker 5: Rhino Design Group met with this group and it is a let's just say I wouldn't say a snobbish group. I'd say that in the best way possible. But they care about Rhino because they want to live there for the next hundred years.
Speaker 5: And they met with this group and they scrutinize this group. And I really appreciate that because I think what greater rigor comes a great project. So I will be supporting this. Here's the the kicker in all of this.
Speaker 5: Plans are constantly changing, especially when they're in the urban core. We just finished our plan and global area Swansea and around this station of 3838 area station area plan we're amending it and it's only been a year. And so the environment is changing so quickly that we're trying to catch up with the very fluid nature of this
Speaker 5: area. So I'll be supporting this and I appreciate all the work from all parties and even folks who are coming to speak in opposition. And I think we'll get a good project. I hope that we can continue talking about affordable spaces for artists, because if we don't do that, we will lose the spirit of this neighborhood.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Brooks. Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: Several things there. Councilman Brooks is right. Curtis Park is is among the toughest. So I think I don't I'm not comfortable putting words in their mouth and saying that they support it because there's no representative of Curtis Park.
Speaker 5: That said, so one thing they are very good about is communicating that in writing and particularly their support and the fact that that's not here. I read something into that, actually bonuses. So we have bonuses, density bonuses and other things that sort of are trying to spur certain needs of the city written into our zoning code.
Speaker 5: But the problem is, is they're not adopted or utilized. And the reason is, is because our base zoning is not restrictive enough. There's no incentive to take those incentives. And so that's where. The rest of my comments go because I understand completely that we are not bound by the lines drawn in the code.
Speaker 5: But the intent of the plan supports the line as it as it was drawn and it was shown. But I do understand that it can be moved. But when we arbitrarily move a line that has been vetted not just by the community, but supported by pass council, we should have more assurances in place to in place to
Speaker 5: support the increase in development potential that we're granting. You heard it here tonight. 30 additional market rate units are going to be captured by that line, moving just from the alley to this new point. And, you know, there is no shortage of 100% market rate rental projects in this city.
Speaker 5: What there is a shortage of is affordable housing. And so when we're moving lines, we shouldn't be doing it arbitrarily. There should be an ask there should be an ask of this city to say, look, we have needs.
Speaker 5: We're granting you additional considerable development rates because building these two floors and I'm a licensed architect, Vint here done that development is not new to me. The going those extra two floors is some of the cheapest development that you can do because you've already put the ground, the work in the foundation.
Speaker 5: You've already built that ground floor retail and and so now just repeating the same thing that you've done layer after layer cheap. So that's not a hard ask, but we don't ask it and we should. So, you know, the so that is the extent we have a line.
Speaker 5: It's been drawn twice. I think the intent of the code, the code as written supports that demarcation. I also think that it matters what third, the experience of 33rd and 32nd are like. If we're going to do this and we're going to honor that intent, that step back should actually wrap so that any place that side of
Speaker 5: the alley towards Larimer would have the same experience as if it were three storey mean zone district. So I will not be supporting this arbitrary move of this line. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Espinosa. Councilman there.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. I have great high regard for my colleagues and their comments. I also have the highest regard for Jayme Loco and what she's doing in Rayna Jaymes helping nursing Golden Triangle as redevelopment, an incredible urban environment there and develop lives.
Speaker 10: And. And when I hear her say she's going to be after these guys to build a quality development, they better watch out. I know what she's doing and go to trial cracking the whip. And so I feel very confident that Rhino's going to be the one of the premier places.
Speaker 10: It's going to be a really cool place to live and work and play, and so I feel real good about what's going to happen. I surely respect Rafael's comments. We've had this common conversation about lines and and architectural viewpoints on plans, and so we've got some good points to discuss further about support this project.
Speaker 10: And I really appreciate what's going to happen and a.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman there, Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Very quickly, I didn't know who the developer was till I got here tonight, but there is a Camden development in my district at the Bellevue Light rail station. It's really great. The architecture is very attractive. The scale is just right for the area.
Speaker 4: The landscaping is great. They take really good care of it. So I just wanted to say a few nice words about them.
Speaker 3: Thanks. Thank you. Councilwoman Black. Councilman Espinosa, you back up?
Speaker 5: Yeah. Thank you, Councilman. You for reminding me. Yeah, there aren't any assurances. As hard as you're going to work to make sure that this project follows through. There aren't. Once we grant this use by. Right. That said, the development teams here, the ownership group is here.
Speaker 5: What I heard in testimony here is that you've made commitments. My expectation is that you follow through that these are going to be rented to artists, that that street is going to be activated and that you're going to make good on making affordable opportunities.
Speaker 5: That because that is crucial to that area right now. And so, Jamie, is it. If you're not getting the traction, call me. I'm going to I'll be in there. Thanks.
Speaker 10: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Councilman Espinosa. Councilwoman. Okay.
Speaker 8: Sorry. Thank you, Mr. President. I was having a site conversation over here. I wanted to express my support for this application a number of years ago. This was part of my council district. And this has been a neighborhood in transition for quite some time.
Speaker 8: As you all know, where we have our light rail stations, and this one is very close by. We're seeing a lot of a lot of changes in these neighborhoods. And as you drive up and down Blake Street, you drive up and down Market Street, you are seeing many, many different new projects.
Speaker 8: This is on the other side of the tracks from the Blake, the Brighton Boulevard corridor, where we're seeing drastic changes to the neighborhood with very high density development, which under blueprint, Denver was proposed as a new growth area.
Speaker 8: And so this is in line with that. I appreciate the work that the developer has done with the neighborhood. Knowing the Curtis Park neighborhood as as I do and have worked with them for many years. If they did not support this, they would be out here in force tonight and they are not.
Speaker 8: And that speaks volumes because they they are not shy in expressing how they feel about anything that's happening within their neighborhood. So I think this will be a good project for the area. And I just wanted to lend my support.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you. Councilwoman Ortega. Any other comments? 130. Scene one. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 6: Brooks Clark. Hi, Espinosa. Oh, Flynn.
Speaker 10: Hi.
Speaker 6: Cashman. I can eat. I Lopez. I knew Ortega Susman. My black.
Speaker 4: Eye.
Speaker 6: Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Hi. Councilman Lopez. Thank you, Madam Secretary, please. Because we've only announced the results.
Speaker 6: 11 eyes, one knee, 11 eyes.
Speaker 3: One day. 130 has been placed on final consideration and does pass. All right. Moving on to our last public hearing of the night, 264. Councilwoman Black, will you please move to have comfortable 264 on the floor for publication?
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. I move that council bill 264 be ordered published.
Speaker 3: It has been moved. And second, walk up the one hour courtesy public hearing for council bill 264 is now open. Audience and Council Members, please be aware that we do have an interpreter who is interpreting simultaneously from English or Spanish.
Speaker 3: During tonight's hearings, audience members may be able to faintly hear the interpretation, and we ask for your indulgence to process. Any testimony in Spanish will also be said in English to ensure that those present and watching at home will be able to understand the comments.
Speaker 3: Thank you. All right. We are first going to start with an overview, but just a reminder, as people are coming in and transitioning out, I will ask that we keep the comments in the chambers quiet so that we can hear the speakers, as well as our reminder that we are not allowed to have people standing on the
Speaker 3: back. So if you are here to watch and you are not going to speak, we do have 391 open and available for you to watch as well. So for those standing in the back, I'm going to ask that you would please find a seat if there is one not available.
Speaker 3: I need you to go to 391 and this front pew right here, sir, we're going to have the speakers come up there. So we're I need you to leave that open. Thank you, sir. So, once again, for those the back, please find a seat if you are able Councilwoman Kenny or David Broadway.
Speaker 3: We need the overview.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you to all of you for your patience getting to this hearing. I want to thank and speak on behalf of my co-sponsors tonight, Councilwoman Sussman and Councilwoman Black. And to all of my colleagues, my name may be one of the sponsors on this bill, but every person that I've talked to, frankly
Speaker 9: , has helped to shape this bill. I also want to thank David Broadwell, who has not had a weekend off in more weeks than any of us want to admit, as he has been working with this council. So we are here today just to make sure that everyone's on the same page, because we had a regulatory environment that
Speaker 9: expired. We had a list of people who could apply for licenses and a list of people who could not apply for licenses. And that expired on December 31st. So that was an intentional move by the prior council to make sure we had this conversation.
Speaker 9: Right. That's what a sunset is. It says we need to check back and talk about this. And so that is what we are doing is we are fulfilling that responsibility. I want to summarize the features of the bill before you tonight to 64 NS new medical centers and new medical cultivation licenses.
Speaker 9: I want to thank Councilwoman Ortega. Those provisions were inspired by her desire to say no to some classes of new licenses. This bill caps the existing number of locations for all growers and stores. Whether they are med, whether they are recreational.
Speaker 9: There is a set cap. It includes a numerical cap, actual numbers in the ordinance. And I thank Councilman Espinosa for that recommendation. But should the number of actual licenses in effect, the day this bill passes be lower than that?
Speaker 9: Then the caps will be lowered accordingly. So the bill includes caps that are a maximum third. This bill includes a very aggressive buffer zone for growth, and that buffer zone is around residential zoned areas, whether there is a home or not.
Speaker 9: If the area is zoned residential, the thousand foot buffer applies and it also includes a 1000 foot buffer from schools. Councilman Herndon, thank you for your inspiration for the residential buffer and councilman knew was very important to him to have the school piece number four because we have an incentive to move away from medical marijuana towards recreational
Speaker 9: or retail because we have greater controls as a city over retail, because you can buy smaller amounts because it does not serve minors. We are allowing in this bill new licenses for retail at existing locations. So that is an important way to allow that migration to occur.
Speaker 9: Without that provision, the world would be stuck in the medical realm with all of the concerns that exist on that side. And so this bill allows existing locations to add recreational or retail. Five. If and when the number of stores or cultivation drops below the caps for each of those categories once a year, the department is directed
Speaker 9: to hold a lottery to issue any potential new locations. There are very high prequalification standards to enter that lottery higher than are required to apply for a license. Right now you have to have a very clean record if you're a prior operator.
Speaker 9: And so those those lotteries only occur if the number of locations drop below the cap and then you are pre-qualified and you meet all of the licensing requirements, then you may enter the lottery.
Speaker 4: Six.
Speaker 9: The bill between committee and today added a new incentive for that lottery so that there would be more entries for those who were from non concentrated areas, areas with fewer stores or areas with fewer cultivation centers. That language is likely to be stricken by an amendment that I intend to support tonight from Councilwoman Gilmore.
Speaker 9: So I'm not going to go into a lot of detail, but I flag it because it is new. It was not in the committee version. It was it came from feedback that we got at committee and after committee.
Speaker 9: But it may it may go away through an amendment number seven. The bill allows pending applications to proceed following the longstanding practice that this city has had of applying rules going forward and not changing the rules going backwards.
Speaker 9: So it allows pending applications to go through for council members. I do have a new handout that I just got this afternoon. I'm going to pass it around or if the secretary might assist me. It covers all of the pending applications in the thousand foot buffer zones and where they are at with their building permits so that
Speaker 9: you can see what types of building permits have already been issued. So, Madam Secretary, if you would, please pass those out. Number eight, this bill does not make any changes to manufacturing facilities or to testing facilities, so they are not addressed specifically in this bill.
Speaker 9: Now, I think it's critical to understand that this bill does not exist in a vacuum. There are other pieces of the statute that remain in effect and that apply, and there are other powers the city has. So really quickly, I just want to summarize things that are not in this bill but are important to understand it.
Speaker 9: First, there are existing limitations on stores, and there are also needs and desires hearings that have been used by neighborhoods very successfully to either kill liquor applications in the past or to get them to agree to community standards such as hours of operation and how to be a good neighbor.
Speaker 9: So that tool needs and desires and those distance requirements already exist in existing law. That's why they are not in this bill. They already exist too. Tomorrow, the City Council Committee on Safety and Health, chaired by Councilman New, will be hearing an odor ordinance that requires significant improvements for those stores or I'm sorry, for those facilities that
Speaker 9: have not invested in carbon scrubbers and other proven technology. That odor ordinance will be considered in committee tomorrow and then will work its way, hopefully through this council. But it is an important piece to consider about a request folks have had that's not in this bill but is moving forward on a separate track.
Speaker 9: Third, the city of Denver has budgetary powers. Many folks have asked whether this bill could include a special tax to tax marijuana businesses to improve communities. It can't without a vote of the people. They've asked about impact fees.
Speaker 9: It can't unless those impacts are directly related to marijuana. It can't be used an impact fee, can't be used to fix sidewalks or lighting or things that are not the problem caused by marijuana. But we as a city do have very powerful budgetary authority.
Speaker 9: And that is why on Friday, April 29th, when this Council convenes in our budget hearings to help to shape the mayor's proposed budget, I will be suggesting that we create a new marijuana community improvement fund that is existing to take tax dollars already flowing into the city through either the base tax on marijuana or through the special
Speaker 9: tax that's just on the retail side. Both are taxed at the base level. Retail has an extra tax to take those some dollars and set them aside for the top most concentrated neighborhoods and to allow those neighborhoods to participate directly in the allocation of that budget dollars through a participatory budgeting process.
Speaker 9: Denver has never before used to participatory budgeting where the citizens directly engage in how to spend dollars. This is our opportunity, and I believe it is an effective way to get at the concerns that folks have raised about whether or not this bill or whether or not marijuana dollars can be used to improve their communities.
Speaker 9: So with this overall package of an odor ordinance, a community improvement fund that uses existing dollars through council ordinance authority, write a separate ordinance. And then this bill, we are taking significant steps towards protecting communities, balancing some basic fairness for businesses and really maintaining a high standard that if you are going to do marijuana business in the
Speaker 9: city, you will come to the city for a license and we will set the standards rather than fueling a secondary market where businesses alone get to choose who enters and who doesn't. With those introductory comments summarizing the bill.
Speaker 9: I will now thank everyone for coming and I look forward to hearing your feedback in the hearing. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Committee. So for those that are unfamiliar with our one hour courtesy of public hearings, let me give you a brief overview. The. The clock starts from the first speaker and it goes continuously for 60 minutes.
Speaker 3: We have 52 speakers. So just by math, you understand that not everyone is going to get the opportunity to speak. And I do apologize for that. The way that we choose the speakers are when you filled out a speaker card, you noted you were there for against their neutral.
Speaker 3: Once you noted how you are the staff, not council members, then that the staff goes in order shooting cards randomly by support, oppose and neutral. So council members will have the opportunity to hear from everyone who has varying opinions and each person has the right to take up the entire 3 minutes.
Speaker 3: If you had the opportunity to get your minutes in your comments in 2 minutes, I'm sure the 21st speaker or the 22nd speaker would greatly appreciate that. So as my role as Council President to continuing to move people through so that we can hear as many people as possible, I do ask when I call your names, you
Speaker 3: come up to this front pew. So we have the opportunity to hear as many people as possible. So that is the procedure when it comes to the public comments. If any speaker is speaking in Spanish and requires translation, I will add an additional 3 minutes at the end for the translation.
Speaker 3: So that is one opportunity. Should we have to require any translation for that? It is implicit and it is anticipated tonight that council members will be offering amendments. It's my understanding three council members will be offering amendments. What we will do now is I will call on each of those individual council members, if they could briefly in
Speaker 3: council members, I will say briefly talk about their amendments so that all the speakers that have the opportunity to come up and speak can speak to the bill as well as any amendment that a council member maybe bring forward afterwards.
Speaker 3: So I will first start with Councilman Clarke. It is my understanding that you have an amendment, and I would ask Councilman Clarke if you could just briefly talk about what your amendment will be. We will have a more robust conversation later on.
Speaker 3: But just so for the speakers can speak to yours or any other amendments that are coming forward.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. I'm actually presenting amendment on behalf of Councilwoman Gilmore, who is not here tonight. So I'll read her statement from again, Councilwoman Gilmore colleagues, I'm currently out of town at an airport conference. I send you my regards and thank Councilman Clark for reading my amendment tonight on with this statement.
Speaker 10: I'm proud of the robust dialog that we have engaged in over the past months. I've come to understand that there are very complex issues around marijuana from our neighborhood schools, regulations, the industry, law enforcement, the state. The list goes on.
Speaker 10: The one issue that has become very clear to me is that there are neighborhoods in Denver that for many different reasons have an undue concentration of cultivation sites and stores. This includes my own neighborhood of Montebello. I'm sharing with you an amendment to S.B. 16 to 64 that will remove the top five neighborhoods with.
Speaker 10: Undue concentration in cultivation sites and stores from the 2017 lottery per David Broadwell and I agree that the terms saturation or oversaturation that have been used are subjective and difficult to define. The term undue concentration is used in this amendment, which makes it completely objective by having the director simply calculate the top five statistical neighborhoods where the
Speaker 10: most licenses exist for cultivation sites and stores. As of last week, the top five statistical neighborhoods for cultivation sites were Elyria, Swansea, Northeast Park, Hill, Overland, Montebello and Valverde. The top five statistical neighborhoods for stores are Overland, Elyria, Swansea, a five points Northeast Park, Hill and Valverde.
Speaker 10: The above listed statistical neighborhoods will be excluded from the 2017 lottery. I hope that you will consider this amendment to address the issue of undue concentration in our neighborhoods. She also shares that she'll be available via phone or email if you have questions and that she'll be watching council proceedings tonight.
Speaker 10: Hi, Councilwoman. And she looks forward to public comment and the discussion. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman. Perfect. All right. My understanding is, Councilwoman Ortega, you also have amendments to offer. So I would ask if you could briefly discuss your amendments for the for the viewing pleasure and for the speakers.
Speaker 8: Great. And I will do them in the order that I would propose to introduce them. So the first one is would basically be addressing pending licenses that have not yet been approved by May 1st for both marijuana sales as well as cultivation licenses.
Speaker 8: This amendment would prohibit approval of such such licenses in certain statistical neighborhoods. And we've got 12 of them that have been identified. And I can read through those that already have a high number of marijuana businesses. Furthermore, the pending applications for the cultivation licenses.
Speaker 8: This amendment will require denial of the applications for locations that do not meet the new requirements for setbacks. And this is clear. These are for setbacks from schools and residential zones, and that the distinction between this one and the one that you just heard is these would be for any application that's pending as of May 1st, 2016
Speaker 8: . This does not include the testing labs or the medically infused product locations. So that's the first one? No. The second one. Essentially would cap the license by license category and over time, it would essentially ratchet down the overall cap.
Speaker 8: So if you look at the numbers of applications that we have pending as of today and the total number of applications that we have seen, we are if the pending go through, we are at over 1300 licenses. Now, Councilwoman, a contentious bill focuses on locations.
Speaker 8: But I think to have the conversation without looking at the number of licenses that we have in the city is I think it's a misstep to not look at the number of licenses at the same time that we are addressing the amount of locations, because in some cases, there may be one location that has a number of
Speaker 8: licenses. So that's what the second one would do. It would essentially ratchet down the number by license category over time. And then the third one. And these wouldn't necessarily all be introduced. For example, if the first one passed, we would not need this third one.
Speaker 8: And this one essentially would propose a similar cap on sales locations and cultivation locations looking at the same statistical neighborhood as the first one. The distinct difference is this one would apply after the pending have been approved, and then the very last one would be an amendment that would require notification of neighborhoods that are in the I.A.
Speaker 8: and I.B. Zone districts for all license types. Currently, the IEEE and I.B. are the only zone districts where the neighborhoods are not notified, and this would ensure that neighbors in those communities have an opportunity to know about the applications.
Speaker 8: So in a nutshell, that's what they do. I can go into greater detail after we get into comments. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega, for your comments on those four possible amendments, I believe, Councilman Lopez, did you have amendments to offer?
Speaker 2: Yes, I do. I have two amendments. Thank you, Mr. President. And this is just on on the on the reasoning that, although are. Although we have a very robust regulation, we have a very robust environment. We are regulating the industry and we're doing it very well here in Denver.
Speaker 2: There are two amendments that I'm as we look at this bill, there are two amendments I would make. The first is in speaks to the concentration of marijuana centers in both medical and retail in our city that are concentrated in certain neighborhoods.
Speaker 2: And, you know, when we go into comments and later, we'll talk a little bit about and we all know in the room what neighborhoods those are. You've heard from them. There are a lot of them. So it would basically prevent the further issuance of any new licenses, both for medical marijuana and retail, as well as the changeover
Speaker 2: in these in these communities. It's Oberlin. Hilarious. Swansea of Five Points. Northeast Park Hill. Valverde. Baker. Sunnyside. Globeville. Montebello. Cap Hill College View Platte Park Civic Center Cole Hampden. Lincoln Park Park Lama, Rosedale, Ruby Hill and Speer. These are the the top 13 and those are going to cherry pick.
Speaker 2: At first we looked at it looking at areas where we know there was some, but we decided to go with what is legally defendable. The second speaks to cultivation, and that's the second opinion I'm bringing forward to, and it prevents the further issuance of any new licenses for marijuana cultivation in these certain named statistical neighborhoods.
Speaker 2: That's hilarious. Swansea. Oberlin. Northeast Park. Yale. Montebello. Valverde. College View. Lincoln Park. La Ma. Sunnyside Baker. Ashmore Park. Five Points. Globeville and Sun Valley. Essentially that's what those two amendments are.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Lopez, and thank you to my colleagues for briefly announcing their amendments. Let me first ask, are there any council members that had other amendments they wanted to bring forward? Seven is enough. All right. Thank you.
Speaker 3: So we're going to start to list our speakers. And just to remind people, the reasoning for these random drawings is based off support, opposition or neutrality. Based on how you noted on your cards, please come to the front pew one hour time once the first speaker begins and I apologize in advance for any names I mispronounced.
Speaker 3: So first five speakers we have up and the first one is Hard Reader, Catholic, Miki Zeppelin, Gregory Wright, Lyndsey Gillis and Brendan Moyers. So those five, please make your way up to the front pew. I wanted to delay all five of them here.
Speaker 3: If we don't have some, then we'll get to some more. So, Rita, you can begin your remarks.
Speaker 4: Dear Members of the Council, thank you for opportunity to speak. As you hear from my accent, I'm an immigrant, an immigrant from Ukraine. I came to this country 25 years ago and I started from McDonald's. Done some learning, done some studies, done some hard work, and feeling like I was succeeding in this country pretty good.
Speaker 4: Up to the last minute. So I to you know, when they start hearing those things so help me out, please. I also you know, I feel that the reason for my success that this country is based on integrity and this country based on honesty and this country based on the handshake, believe, if you go back to Russia
Speaker 4: and Ukraine, they wouldn't even believe our banking system. They wouldn't understand why people just not go and steal the money. They have the ability to do that, but they're not doing that. I had this handshake. The city of Denver in November opening OPEC in AMC.
Speaker 4: I followed all the rules. I'm an A student. If they say do something, I'm doing that. I had my card signed. ABC emcee called Signed already and I'm ready for licenses. I just found out that I cannot get the licenses because they put hearing on that.
Speaker 4: There wasn't supposed to be. They're just found out today. So that delays the process, which is already killing me. I have people working, getting everything ready. I have employees who is getting store ready to open and just spent so much money on that you can't believe.
Speaker 4: And I have a lease that binds me for for at least five years and I have to pay out of this lease. I recently had to stop my computer programing career to do this. So I just can't go back home and tell my family this is what's happening.
Speaker 4: And the implication sounds very, very innocent when you think in the application and it's pending. But no, in order to put that application, you have to sign you have to sign the lease with the landlord. And then, you know, from where you want the business, that lease is usually huge.
Speaker 4: And then you have to spend lots of money to invest for the grow. I build it, we build it all the past, those inspections. I just got my seasonal card signed and city went all the way helping me out to get things signed so quickly so we can open quickly.
Speaker 4: And I just can't go home and tell my family that this is what's happening. I have a partner. He has three kids. He has to put them to college and not to be for the rest of his life.
Speaker 4: Now, on the lease and bills on you know, this is just I understand that city may be deciding to change the rules and not to take any more applications. I wouldn't.
Speaker 3: Please, greta. Ma'am. Your 3 minutes is up.
Speaker 4: Appreciate your.
Speaker 3: Help. Thank you. And could you say your cities have resident? Do you live at your Denver resident? What city do you live in?
Speaker 4: I live in Greenwood Village in. I have properties in that property. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next, we have Mickey Zeppelin.
Speaker 10: Good evening. Members of Council. I live at 350, which is in Globeville. And the history of Globeville is one from the city standpoint of really shame. I think for the last hundred years Globeville has been really abused. The original highway came through, Globeville through when President Eisenhower did it.
Speaker 10: We've had smelters. We've had the sewer plant. Any undesirable use seems to end up in Globeville, and the benefits don't manage to get there. We have the worst air that we're schools, the worst health. And we also got marijuana and we got an abundance of it.
Speaker 10: And I think people felt really powerless in terms of protesting. I think New Hope came when we adopted the neighborhood plan. People felt somewhat empowered and there was a sense of hope. And people really gathered together. And when it appeared that there was going to even be more marijuana in there in the area which had disastrous effects
Speaker 10: , the roads are terrible. The whole environment is bad. And from my standpoint as a developer, there's really not much incentive to go along with what is in the plan to create community, to make things happen. From the community standpoint, I think they're looking at this not just as are we going to have more marijuana, but it's in
Speaker 10: essence the hope of that community of saying we're finally being listened to. The number of people here who came out who would.
Speaker 5: Never have come before to a.
Speaker 10: Hearing like this is amazing. And it's gratifying to see after 15 years that finally people have risen up and said, enough is enough, we want some benefits and not all the burdens. So I.
Speaker 5: Ask you.
Speaker 10: To provide that there be no more marijuana in the Globeville area. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mrs. Kaplan. Gregory Wright.
Speaker 10: I thank you for letting me speak. I'm a business owner. I have a manufacturers of refuse product licensing and located on 3936 West Colfax on January the 26 of 2015. A Denver zoning representative came in with a fireman to present me with a new law and to say a state that I had six days to cease and
Speaker 10: desist operations that I was no longer allowed to operate in a Nomex three zone. And I had to relocate. There was nothing I could do. Speaking to attorneys around the city and all, they said, you know, in any other business, in any other industry, we would be able to go and.
Speaker 10: Bring our case before the city as business takings. But with marijuana. Seems like no judge is going to be able to listen to any lawsuits and basically says, you know, take it outside and box it out on the grass.
Speaker 10: Gentlemen, we're not going to listen to you. So I've been hurt very badly by the city over the last year. I've had no income and I have licenses that I have paid for. As you know, these licenses are very costly.
Speaker 10: I have probably lost over $100,000 in the last 14 months supporting this business and trying to find a new location that suitable and approved by Denver zoning. I understand the plight of everybody that is is in the rears right now and waiting to get licensed.
Speaker 10: I went through the pain and still am going through it. I support Representative Canisius amendment and feel that this industry is overregulated. I've followed the rules from day one. Did everything right. Never fudged from it. We have a system called metric which tracks everything we do.
Speaker 10: My system was clean from beginning to end. Yet the city chose to come in. Knocked me off the plate and say. Try again. A lot of money lost. Thank you for listening to me.
Speaker 3: Thank you, sir. Next, we have Lindsay. Lindsay Gillis. Lindsey and Lee. Okay. Next, we have Brennan Moyers.
Speaker 8: Some of these folks may be downstairs that need to come up.
Speaker 3: Okay. We are going to I'm going to say the next five, Brant Beckman, Brooke Gehring, Holliday Aguilar, Lisa Salmon, CORERA and Brian Keegan. So if you five are in the room or in 391, I ask that you will please come up.
Speaker 3: Brant Beckman You can go ahead and begin your remarks.
Speaker 12: Hello there, city council. My name is Brant Beckman.
Speaker 10: I'm a resident.
Speaker 12: In Golden, Colorado, but also a property owner at Logan Street in the Globeville area. I guess we have a MIPS license, a medical MIPS license. And I guess I want to thank you, because it looks like at this point we will be able to get our recreational license.
Speaker 12: So I appreciate the fact that it does look that way from the deeper part of my heart, though, I do feel sad about what's happening to the medical community pushing things in that direction. And I also feel that we are a little bit on the overregulated side, and I think that the system, the way it is, can
Speaker 12: regulate it as is. I do hear the hearts of the community and some of the things that have been done in the communities. I think there's great things that you guys are doing at this point to make that better for the communities.
Speaker 12: And I guess just want to say thank you for hearing us all and I'll give time to the next speaker. So thanks.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Beckman. Next, Brooke. Gary.
Speaker 4: Thank you, counsel. My name is Brooke Garing and I am a resident of District Six. I am a business owner for six and a half years in districts three, seven, eight. And I'm also a property owner in District eight.
Speaker 4: Some of my comments have already been made this evening. So I'd like Kristy Kelly, Vice Chair of the Marijuana Industry Group, to be able to speak for me tonight. Thank you, counsel, and thank you, Brooke. Christie Kelly, I reside in district one.
Speaker 4: I own multiple.
Speaker 3: Businesses. I'm sorry. I apologize. I was talking to the council secretary. You can't defer your time. So that was your time. That that is your time. You can't another person can't come up and take the remainder of your time.
Speaker 3: I apologize for that.
Speaker 4: Okay. I just didn't want to be. Okay.
Speaker 3: So apologize now. You can't have you speak for another person. We're we need to go to the next to the next speaker unless you want to continue your time.
Speaker 9: We're good.
Speaker 3: We get. All right. Thank you. Next, we have Holly Aguilar. And Madam Secretary, this will require translation. So could you do a total of 6 minutes for the speaker?
Speaker 0: Yes. Thank you.
Speaker 4: You see, when I said this and you're discussing numbers, Holliday. Aguilar, good afternoon. Good evening. Councilmembers. My name is Holliday. Aguilar. See you then. Go deal with scenario. This one's here. I come from the Swanson neighborhood. Babies are important to animals.
Speaker 4: I've lived there for 15 years. You're a member of the communities who needs the help of your Ilaria swans here. And I am a member of a community that is Sunni. That's from Globeville area in Swansea. I mean, I know some of the limit.
Speaker 4: And Imean, that gay pride, they must defend us in Bernardo Delas Villas areas stands out to us. And we are in favor in favor of the amendment that would prohibit more stores and cultivation centers in the areas that are already been that are already saturated, not good mosques acting licentious because dumping the enters in our community, we
Speaker 4: do not want you to accept the licenses that are pending in our community. Okay. But is it mutual? As you said, isn't the cornerstone, even though I'm glad of this, that they maintain important a mutual basis Pedro but is it cannot not and is Cucolo?
Speaker 4: I believe many of you know me. I have come to speak on this subject many, many times, but it seems like you might not have listened. Can I moschino's? Is Guccione in action? We want you to hear us and to take action in journalism.
Speaker 4: But these are mutual. There is a lot impact to this industry in our community that we have repeated many times what the impacts of this industry have on our community. Listen. But these are the mutual models loss impact those peripatetic you say this boom in tourism we have repeated these impacts to you, but it seems like maybe
Speaker 4: you're not interested in them. No, not anti portal status since they must represent them. And as personas can be hurting, we do not feel represented represented by you. We feel like you represent those that invest best. So I can represent an anecdote.
Speaker 4: Rose Caramels giving on ABC. Tara, whose Comunidad is Nuestra Comunidad. We asked you, we ask you to start representing us. We want you to come and visit your communities, our community. Get em all to a boil as he considers Buscaglia nosotros.
Speaker 4: But I started on the stand. We're asking you, asking for your support. Just like you ask for our support to be where you're at at this moment. Muchas gracias. Thank you very much.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next, we have Lisa Samoa's career.
Speaker 4: Good evening. I'm Lisa Simos. Korea and I live on Capitol Hill and I do have an MBA degree. And and that will explain my short statement.
Speaker 11: Anti-competitive practices.
Speaker 4: Are government.
Speaker 11: Practices.
Speaker 4: That prevent or reduce competition in the market. And since I have 3 minutes, I'm going to repeat that. Anti-competitive practices. Our government practices that prevent or reduce competition in a market. And I do mean this with all due respect.
Speaker 4: I ask each of you to be careful what you wish for by throwing up entries entry barriers. I am concerned that the ensuing protectionism will give companies insulation from competitive forces that would ultimately benefit the consumers that you are trying to protect.
Speaker 4: And I made a little note, a quote from Councilman Brooks Brooks a little earlier that he doesn't believe in overprescribing. And I hope the rest of you will consider that as well. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next, we have Brian Keegan. And as Brian. And before Brian Keegan begins his remarks, I'm gonna call the next five speakers Nicola Voulu and Elizabeth. Kristy Kelly. Martha Flores. And Flown Beth Beckman.
Speaker 12: Gareth DAVIES Good evening, President and members of Council. My name is Brian Keegan. I am here today as a marijuana industry professional. But more importantly, I'm here as a concerned citizen of District eight and the state of Colorado moratorium is coming to an end, as we all know.
Speaker 12: And we must decide how to move forward. I believe Councilwoman Kinesis proposal, is that correct? Way forward. Some of the proposed amendments, however, do go too far. And as we have chosen to speak with you today. My fear is that there are some anti-marijuana groups and influential people, some of them in this room that are using this
Speaker 12: topic and this time in history as another referendum on marijuana. The voters have spoken. As we all know. It is time for a sensible regulation like Councilwoman Kansas proposed that provides jobs and tax revenue for the city. I ask you to vote for a councilman, finish his proposal this this fine evening and urge you to vote against
Speaker 12: the proposals for one reason. I just don't believe that you guys have had enough time to hash it out, no pun intended. And and I don't think a lot of people in this room have really had time to digest those amendments as well.
Speaker 12: I think we've all had time to digest the the the bill at hand. But the amendments, they they definitely need some work. And I think we all need to sit down and go over them. Thank you for your time.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Nick Lovullo.
Speaker 0: Let me go below. Although I'm a resident of five points, just a neighbor. We wouldn't be here today if you all did what you should have done and just let the moratorium fizzle out. Should it just that have been it at two years booming industry marijuana crime down to next to nothing 0.03% of all crime in Denver
Speaker 0: . Millions of dollars in tax revenue. Well regulated. We win. The reward is that we get a ban on businesses. Weight of the 11th hour to reinstate the moratorium. Deliberate for five months on an issue that's several standard deviations away from what people care about.
Speaker 0: Now, you know, the priorities are just backwards. No new medical dispensaries. Zero. This is the first piece of legislation that I've ever read, ever in Denver, Colorado, that prioritizes casual consumerism over people who use marijuana as medicine. Zero.
Speaker 0: His Campaign for Patients Rights First. Until now. You guys have got to put your names all over this, Bill. Fewer people are getting red cards. So are you going to shut off the valve? There's zero forever. There's no sunset on this bill.
Speaker 0: There's no sunset. We don't get to talk about this again in two years and have the same conversation all over again. There's some gold medal, mental gymnastics going on that would lead you to believe that that's something that Coloradans would support.
Speaker 0: I don't know. You said something that this is does not capture test licenses. I wasn't sure. But, yeah, like banning, you know, restricting all these licenses. It's really reefer madness. It's a leap from common sense ability. Some of your council reps want to eliminate the pending applications in certain neighborhoods, my old councilman included.
Speaker 0: I understand that there is an undue concentration which is just as subjective as saturation. That word undue. Anyway, another 11th hour decision to pull people's licenses away from them. You know, even though the city processed all those applications, now, you know, where were you when those came in?
Speaker 0: Where were you when those licenses came in? Did you ever go to an excise and licenses, hearing, protest, something with your community? I don't think you did. That's the process that was supposed to go through, not tear the rug out from everybody and open the city up to potentially millions of dollars in civil liability claims.
Speaker 0: That's reckless. That's reckless. You're lucky you have elected office because you work anywhere else. You open that company, your organization, up to that level of liability. You're gone yesterday. So don't punish our entrepreneurs who follow the process because you failed to organize your communities earlier on, many months ago at a license hearing.
Speaker 0: Don't let businesses you know, businesses, investors have no recourse but to sue the city for their losses. You'll be the ones stamping those settlement checks and we'll be the ones paying for them. So you spent five months on this proposal.
Speaker 0: Sad to say, it's terrible. It's antithetical to Denver's normal dealing with local businesses, especially if you take away the licenses. It's anti-coal. Colorado's priority of treatment of the boulder.
Speaker 3: This is a little loose. Your 3 minutes are up, sir. All right. Thank you. I appreciate that. Next we have. Next we have an Elizabeth and that is and you are certainly have a right to clap. But all that does is possibly prevent future people from speaking.
Speaker 3: So I would ask if we could keep the clapping down so we can get through all the speakers. Miss Elizabeth, you're up.
Speaker 11: Thank you. And Elizabeth Global resident and I have a little studio there now. Thank you to the repurposing of a building. I'm here to support this bill, if amended by the combined amendments proposed by council members Ortega, Lopez.
Speaker 0: And Gilmore such.
Speaker 11: That no new marijuana business licenses of any type will be granted in the areas determined to be neighborhoods of undue concentration by the council and consensus, and that that the threshold be the top ten neighborhoods. We have 78 statistical neighborhoods in Denver that the marijuana licenses that as marijuana licenses may.
Speaker 0: Leave Globeville Leery.
Speaker 11: And Swansea in particular through attrition over time that reduced concentrations be enforced through licensing application freezes in these neighborhoods until Globeville, Larry, Swansea in particular move out of the top 18 concentration ranking that the total investment to the marijuana license applications pending firms be assessed in the global Elyria Swansea neighborhoods, and that the city offer recovery and
Speaker 11: incentives for the relocation of these pending applications from global area Swansea to other neighborhoods in Denver with new sites and that that no more that I'm going to derivate from my notes to respond. A couple of things here real quick.
Speaker 11: Number one, I'm a strong supporter of medical marijuana. I voted against Proposition 64 because I didn't think Denver was ready to administer this based on its experiences with excise, licensing and other matters matters. I did participate fully in the beginning from within the neighborhoods, in attending licensing hearings, in the facilities coming into the neighborhoods, trying to help
Speaker 11: the commercial firms recognize the impacts on the neighborhoods that were happening. I think that even though many marijuana business and I'm very glad that in the state legislature, the conversation around administering, giving parents the right to bring medical marijuana treatment to the school is available, still being.
Speaker 0: Considered possibly available.
Speaker 11: For children. I'm I support that strongly. But the hedonistic recreational use of marijuana, even though it is being used, even though the firms do.
Speaker 0: Often do.
Speaker 11: Adhere to the to the letter of the law and follow regulations. I don't think that courtesies have been in place throughout this.
Speaker 0: Are people such as myself that have wanted regulation. This is a different type.
Speaker 11: Of of of change socially and environmentally. And these it's not anecdotal or subjective. When you walk down the street and you smell the marijuana and you experience it in the daily lives, it's a it's a critical thing. We need the right regulation.
Speaker 11: If we have a lottery, I want the the concentrated areas to be removed. It is not unfriendly to business to ask for these these.
Speaker 0: Neighborhoods like Loveland, Larry Swanson, that want to support a diversification of business, a vital economy in emergence into a whole new.
Speaker 11: Culture along the corridor of opportunity. Be relieved of the pressure of this flood. Talk about storm water.
Speaker 0: We need to work with this this.
Speaker 3: Elizabeth.
Speaker 11: And we need.
Speaker 3: To this Elizabeth, maybe 3 minutes is very much. Thank you. Next we have Christie Kelly.
Speaker 4: Good evening again. Thank you. Council, President and Council. I'm Christy Kelly. I reside in District one and I own multiple businesses in District three. I am also vice chair of Marijuana Industry Group. I am co-founder of Accountability, which is a nonprofit for families dealing with very sick children who require cannabis medicine to help with their serious conditions
Speaker 4: . I am founding board member of the Fourth Corner Credit Union and co-owner of a business that employs over 50 Denver residents and has been in operation since oh nine and I believe in the efficacy of medical cannabis. Last week I heard hear from residents that they're upset about cannabis businesses in their communities.
Speaker 4: And this was shocking to me because conversely, my own experience has been different. 40 to 50 of my own neighborhood neighbors and District three thanked us for moving in, installing security and essentially eradicating the illicit drug dealing in the shared alley behind our cultivation facility.
Speaker 4: Which was in Councilman Lopez's district. My business has a directive to prioritize diversity economic, racial, sexual, religious and academic. Every one of my employees loves the city of Denver and believe that responsible businesses should thrive and coexist within the communities that we operate.
Speaker 4: And that's why it's really critical to allow pending applicants for business, for businesses that have gone through or are going through the rigorous application process right now. You have to acquire a zone, construct permit and then install security into these facilities.
Speaker 4: Often vacant buildings. This is an investment that requires millions of dollars. Then in the last couple of years, the evolving landscape added on to that rigor by with with an evolving fire, public safety, environmental, health regulation and regulatory framework.
Speaker 4: And that just adds to the investment pool. My sense is, wouldn't this be exactly the kinds of businesses that you would want to co-exist inside of your communities? The ones who are happily, willingly finding additional resources to happily comply with the evolving regulatory landscape.
Speaker 4: Don't you want well-resourced businesses who feel a sense of responsibility to the cities that they live in and the regulatory environments that we're putting forth? This should be exactly what we want in our communities, people who are willing to do whatever it takes to be compliant.
Speaker 4: Why punish them for following the rules on the 1000 square foot residential buffer issue? It's my understanding that the goal is to avoid saturation inside of communities and support the diversification of businesses. The challenge in this is that in the event of eminent domain and.
Speaker 3: Misskelley, I apologize to you, 3 minutes are.
Speaker 4: Up. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much, counsel.
Speaker 3: Next, we have Martha Flores.
Speaker 6: Excuse me.
Speaker 3: And this will require translation. So, Madam Secretary, we could do 6 minutes and before my floor. As you start, I'm going to call the next five names from that Beckman, Mike Wolfe, Carl Cheney, Little John, Jennifer Schuman and John Menzies.
Speaker 3: So if you five can make your way up my floors, you mean you can even begin your remarks.
Speaker 4: When I start? This may number as much as he possessed. Okay, come on. My already familiar Berlusconi, that is. Good evening. My name is Marta Flores, and I am here as a mother supporting our communities as farmers.
Speaker 11: Support and the estamos. I have all I mean.
Speaker 4: The private amnesty industry in bear Madero Salazar described as counsel to riders. We are in favor of the amendment that prohibits more stores in more cultivation centers in the already saturated areas. No caramels as a concept and a license.
Speaker 4: Yes. Because stamping the interest in a company that is we do not want you to accept the licenses that are pending in our communities.
Speaker 11: So my story preoccupied Upper Mexico's Justo.
Speaker 4: Lucha, the Nelson Plateau, Salvador Comida and in La mesa. I am a mother. And right now my concern is to make sure that my children have healthy food at the table, in my own pocket at recess. And they will come on as a community that says that in London, the contents of the marijuana eat and the smaller
Speaker 4: salad is a planter's. And I'm saddened to see the way our community is saturated by these marijuana stores in these cultivation areas. Your main work at this at this if you had an appropriate and familiar for measure that comes to me high school and then marijuana this to say better less quail and also odors.
Speaker 4: And I'm here speaking on a personally speaking because my son was involved in marijuana and he wasn't able to attend school reporting for medical marijuana and allowed us to prevail. He was. And because of marijuana and unfamiliar person for a person because of marijuana, he does not have his freedom.
Speaker 4: And I would hate for other families to go through what I go through. When it's done. Yes, that is it. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Miss Flores. Next, we have fun with Beckman.
Speaker 4: Good evening. My name's Flaubert Beckmann. My address is 5060 Logan. Zip 81 six Globeville Neighborhood. Thank you for listening. The voice of the community. We all know this important. We know we all know that that is what form society.
Speaker 4: And we all like to be part of society. And thank you again for listening in the concert. So the cannabis business owners and your web page from the Office of the Economic and Development say you start your business, say let's stock this, come from your website about businesses.
Speaker 4: So that's what we're doing. We're talking and we're really appreciate that as a community that you're listening or concerns that you're questioning, that you're questioning signs that you're questioning the public services, but that then we has a obligation to educate your community, to educate your families.
Speaker 4: And I am asking for your help because as a community in the cannabis businesses, I think everybody we want people to be really well educated. We don't want children. We don't want families to be destroyed. So let's back.
Speaker 4: And because you are here making history by changing the lesson, Colorado, I want to thank you for the opportunity or for the privilege to hopefully acquire a recreational license for my medical infuse business. And as a company, we continuously aim to be part of a community where can all lead sustainable.
Speaker 4: Let's talk about that. Let's talk about how Denver can provide to businesses like the cannabis businesses and sustainable farm, a sustainable base that we can thrive. We can be all party and we can all be happy. So again, thank you.
Speaker 4: And let's talk about that, the sustainability of businesses. What is the carbon carbon footprint of each business? You know, they talk about some businesses. They has five licenses in that business. Let's talk about sustainability. Do you rather has five different buildings or you rather has businesses?
Speaker 4: They are small businesses in one location. So let's talk about that. And again, thank you for everything. And I just want a better Denver. It was something that I didn't ask to be, but all the businesses, somehow we ended up being in Denver and now we need to deal with.
Speaker 4: So let's be smart. Let's try to take good choices. Thank you again.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Miss Beckman. Next, we have Mike Wolfe and we are just over 30 minutes.
Speaker 0: All right. Good evening, members of the council. My name is Mike Wolfe. I work at ten, five, five five East 45th Avenue, Denver 8239. I'm testifying in support of councilwoman clinches marijuana bill and against any of the amendments.
Speaker 0: I'm 30 years older. I graduated with honors from Illinois State University with a degree in horticulture shortly after I moved to Colorado in 2010. I recently left my job as a production grower at one of the largest wholesale bedding plant growers in Colorado.
Speaker 0: At this greenhouse, I was exposed to extremely harmful chemicals on a daily basis. As of this past year, I was required to spray organophosphates. For those of you who are not aware, gain of phosphates accumulate in your body over time, they never leave.
Speaker 0: So if you are exposed to these at all, there is a good chance that you will have complications later in life. Organophosphate poisoning can greatly affect the nervous system. I also had very little excuse me, practically no room for advancement in my previous position.
Speaker 0: I was incredibly excited to accept a position as a lead grower with an extremely well-known cannabis company with a pending application. This company is about a month away from receiving its certificate of occupancy for a beautiful state of the art facility.
Speaker 0: The facility is located more than 1000 feet away from any residential area or school. I am I am so excited to work in cannabis because it allows me to use my degree and do the work that I love without putting my body and health at risk from harmful chemicals.
Speaker 0: This is also a much better paying job for me, which is great because I have student loans and I have a mortgage that I need to pay. Started training a few weeks ago. I was of initially I was a little hesitant to jump into the cannabis industry.
Speaker 0: But after careful consideration and research, I know that this is a company that is committed to doing things the right way and they are already training me in compliance. If the pending applications are denied, I will definitely lose my job.
Speaker 0: I honestly do not know what I will do. My bills are pretty high. I cannot afford to go without work. Please do the right thing and allow the pending applications to proceed. It is not just the owners who will be devastated.
Speaker 0: If these are denied, I'll lose the best job I've ever had.
Speaker 12: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Next we. Have Caro Cheney little John. And I would just remind our speakers if you could say your name and cities of residence and your home address if you are comfortable.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Carl Cheney, Little John and I am here representing the community of Mandela. I truly believe that on behalf of the children and my community of 24 years, that business owners understand.
Speaker 8: Can you lift your microphone up just a little bit?
Speaker 0: Feelings and of our community, the investments and the business plans that they have for my fellow, you know, everybody took a risk doing that. The. There could have been a consideration to these owners that you could look within a 30 mile radius of Denver to invest, and it would have been cheaper with the ordinances as far as
Speaker 0: Denver is concerned. After attending the. Agendas that you had here for city council. The assistant attorney advised the counsel of their right to support the marijuana industry. Council took into consideration children in the children and the communities. But they did not take the advice.
Speaker 0: The best advice of the assistant attorney, which was to. Stop. Let the business owners know that a stake has occurred. The city chooses to put forth a frivolous mask on pending applications to sacrifice our children and our communities to pass this ordinance.
Speaker 0: Is truly not fair to the communities and to the children. Coming to a meeting. I listened to Commish say that she has a six year old daughter. Our six year old. Something. But. In our community. I've been there for 24 years and I've been coaching.
Speaker 0: I volunteer for the community in everything. I have no I have no qualms with. The businesses that are there. But we have five schools within. A thousand foot of saturated community already, which you're going to install more. Businesses and it's not fair to our community.
Speaker 0: A lot of people aren't here to protect their sales, but I just want counsel to know that there will be consequences to pay for this. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thanks a little, John. Next, we have Jennifer Schumann.
Speaker 8: Hi. I'm Jennifer SHUKMAN. I live in District one.
Speaker 4: Councilman Espinosa is my representative. I'm a stay at home mom to two small boys. They're six and.
Speaker 8: Seven.
Speaker 4: And I don't personally use marijuana, alcohol, tobacco, what have you. But I see the value that these businesses bring to our city right in tax dollars.
Speaker 8: In renovating buildings and in employment.
Speaker 4: So bear with me here. I have close friends who own three restaurants in Denver.
Speaker 8: And I can't imagine that they would.
Speaker 4: Work in good faith to build out their restaurant and hire people, only to be told at the last minute that we just have too many places to eat right.
Speaker 8: Now and that location doesn't work anymore. And so maybe you're just not going to be.
Speaker 4: Allowed to open.
Speaker 8: At all through really no fault of.
Speaker 4: Their own. This is their money that they have invested. These are people who.
Speaker 8: Are citizens of this county, who have families who are following the rules. So that really wouldn't be acting in good faith to pull these pending licenses and to not allow them to progress.
Speaker 4: I assume it would open up the city to legal action. I wouldn't be.
Speaker 8: Dying to pay for it, given that I do.
Speaker 4: Have small children in school here. So these.
Speaker 8: Are people who have invested.
Speaker 4: Heavily and followed the rules. I respectfully ask that you act in good faith toward these people who are.
Speaker 8: Holding up their end of the.
Speaker 4: Deal. And I was a little bit unaware that there was an attempt to maybe legislate some morality on this issue or treat these businesses different than any other. I hope that's not the direction the city and council, the city and county of Denver is headed in.
Speaker 4: And I also strongly agree.
Speaker 8: With the woman who said earlier something along the lines of it is not the role of government to kill.
Speaker 4: Competition. So thank you for your time. I appreciate you being here.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Michigan. Next. Next, we have John Mincy. And as Mr. Menzies come forward, I'll call the next five names Tyler Henson, Scott Peck, Michael Liebowitz and Nadav Asner and Nathan Mendell. So Mr. Menzies, you can begin remarks.
Speaker 0: First off, my name is John Mekas and I'm a 30 for 54.
Speaker 10: Laughs and I'd like to thank the Council for the opportunity to.
Speaker 0: Speak to them.
Speaker 2: First off, I want.
Speaker 0: To let you guys know I'm the owner of a small mom and pop shop. I don't own a chain of retail stores, I don't own multiple stores. I own a 1000 square foot store.
Speaker 10: That is fortunate enough to see the demand outpaces supply, which is the reason why I went to the city months ago. I filled out my city.
Speaker 0: Application, paid my money, and in good faith began the very expensive and detailed long process of building out this facility. The warehouse that I took over at that time.
Speaker 10: Was completely gutted. There was a stop.
Speaker 0: Work order on it and it had been abandoned for the last three years. There was no electricity, no water, no walls. We completely went in there, fixed up the whole place.
Speaker 10: Were a few weeks.
Speaker 0: Away from getting our lights are getting our application code and it just seems really unfair at this point. Well, first off, I want to start by saying that I'm in support of Councilwoman Nash's bill, and it just seems really unfair to me to pull the pull the carpet out from under legitimate businesses who have been spending so
Speaker 0: much money and time trying to better themselves.
Speaker 10: Obviously, I'm the.
Speaker 0: Ultimate loser in this situation, but I'm not the only one. I have electrical contractors who are going to lose money. I have a lot of contractors who are going to lose money. Security people are going to lose money.
Speaker 0: We've already hired employees to work both the shop and the warehouse. As you know, this is one of the most regulated environments you could possibly imagine. You don't just hire employees and put them in a work environment overnight.
Speaker 0: That takes months of planning and anticipation. On a personal note, I mean, truthfully, I don't know if I will still be in business if you guys don't allow pending applications to move forward. I have sunk my wife and my full savings into this new business, and my wife is getting ready to have our first baby here in
Speaker 0: the next couple of weeks, and I really hope that doesn't coincide with the death of my business. So I appreciate your time.
Speaker 3: Tyler Henson.
Speaker 10: Thank you very much. My name is Tyler Henson. I am the president of the Colorado Cannabis Chamber of Commerce.
Speaker 12: We are located at 225 16th Avenue here in Denver, Colorado.
Speaker 10: A mirror testifies for that Colorado Cannabis Chamber of Commerce does not support this legislation or the amendments provided. One thing I'd like to state is this current bill that's being proposed. I look at this as a view of regulatory capture, which is a regulatory scheme that is to transform into a competition stifling tool that encourages rent seeking
Speaker 10: behavior.
Speaker 12: Which aims to use government regulations to impose regulations on competitors.
Speaker 10: In order to increase market share. I view these caps as an assault on businesses here in the state of Colorado, as well as the city and.
Speaker 5: County of Denver. Having a cap on licenses.
Speaker 10: Artificially increases the costs of licenses.
Speaker 12: In the state.
Speaker 10: They impede individuals from entering this market. And Denver should be embracing this new economy instead of prohibiting it. I will ask you to take a vote of no. On this bill. And I'm going to see the rest of my time.
Speaker 10: So individuals within this community who have licenses in this businesses or a pending licenses can. You can hear their voice so you can hear directly how this issue affects their businesses, their families and the communities they serve. And again, I asked you to.
Speaker 12: Not support this.
Speaker 10: Legislation or any of the.
Speaker 12: Amendments. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next, we have Scott Pack. Scott Peck.
Speaker 10: Thank you very much.
Speaker 12: I'll keep this brief. I don't want to repeat a lot of the great things that have been said here tonight. One thing I want to point out is. We're on a threshold. Denver is actually cool again. Like it is a big phenomenon that is.
Speaker 10: Happening in Denver.
Speaker 12: Why is that important? It's important because companies from the best school, you know, from the best cities, some of their schools are moving to Denver. It has been some some of the most amazing things are happening in the city.
Speaker 12: What we're all afraid of is it's a very difficult process to manage growth of a new industry that nobody knows anything about. Everybody wants a crystal ball, right. I applaud the tough decisions that you guys are making. Really.
Speaker 12: It's really it's it's admirable. However, like. What you guys fear seemingly is going to naturally correct itself. It happens in every industry to the woman's point. You open up too many restaurants and you don't do a good job.
Speaker 12: You go out of business. Those licenses will be surrendered by business owners that don't do good in business. They don't have good products. They don't grow well. They don't produce safe safety and efficacy. The two drivers of Big Pharma, right?
Speaker 12: Safety and efficacy, that's all we care about. We're not increasing the number of drugs in our streets. We're not making it easier for kids to get drugs. I've kids I've it's it creates more of a safer community environment for everybody.
Speaker 12: So. I'm Scott Park. I represent. Ten licenses in two facilities in two impacted zip codes and over $15 million of investment that have. I've been under the care of now. Based in.
Speaker 10: Relying.
Speaker 12: Upon the laws that have been in place. It would be a catastrophic failure. If these bills were to pass and the amendments. Everybody's moving to this city. Second fastest growing city. It's amazing. Applaud you guys all. Don't put roadblocks.
Speaker 12: The best and the brightest of this country are coming here because it's affordable, more affordable housing and still a very, very high standard of living. The market will correct itself. So thank you.
Speaker 3: Next we have Michael. Michael Liebowitz.
Speaker 5: Thank you. My name is Mike Liebowitz. I live at a 3267 Newton Street. I have lived in Denver about 11 years before that. I lived in Boulder. Originally from the East Coast. I got in the marijuana industry back.
Speaker 0: When it started.
Speaker 5: Before this was ever imaginable. We met in meetings, in houses, in Longmont and debated, is this really going to happen? Is this really an industry that's really happened? But long story short, I have worked very hard personally to climb up in the industry, and I.
Speaker 5: I'm sorry.
Speaker 3: I'm kind of forgetting what I was gonna say.
Speaker 0: I'm a little emotional. I'm a little angry. I went through anger, I went through sadness.
Speaker 5: And now I'm here to prevent it from happening again. Basically, I went into the city of Denver in July knowing that a property I owned on 38th was eligible because 30th Avenue on West 38th, a little west of federal, was was.
Speaker 3: Eligible for a dispensary because another dispensary moved.
Speaker 5: We all know the rigorous application and process of becoming a dispensary. I filled out all the necessary paperwork.
Speaker 3: The woman at.
Speaker 5: The desk hit the button and lo and behold, they would take my $5,000 for an application. And I was elated. I was qualified in this impossible world of qualifying to become a dispensary. I went ahead.
Speaker 0: And remodel, kicked my tenants out of a great.
Speaker 3: Rental property, remodeled a house.
Speaker 5: And.
Speaker 0: Went ahead and even.
Speaker 5: Purchased a convertible recreational license. So I could have both businesses at my my property.
Speaker 3: Finally got all my signatures completed and last Friday walked.
Speaker 5: An exercise in license as I thought a formality to get my business license. And I was told that that wasn't going to happen anymore, that I was.
Speaker 10: Under review basically.
Speaker 5: For a change of measurement.
Speaker 3: That wasn't made clear to me when I applied.
Speaker 5: Back in in October. So I'm obviously going to go through a hearing and.
Speaker 3: Debate my own issue.
Speaker 5: But just to speak on why we're all here tonight, it's incredibly.
Speaker 0: Unfair to take a.
Speaker 5: Taxpayer.
Speaker 3: I've been used to an apartment.
Speaker 5: Buildings and I got really crushed and.
Speaker 3: You know, 28 and 29, like a lot of people and built myself back up through the apartment, through the marijuana industry.
Speaker 0: It's just you guys aren't here to ruin people's lives. You're here to, you know, set regulations. But, you know, to allow.
Speaker 5: Somebody like myself to go to go forward and put all of his money into into a project and then for rules to change, you know, at the last minute and be.
Speaker 0: Denied that.
Speaker 5: It's just is just not fair.
Speaker 3: So I, I just want to say.
Speaker 5: That I support any measure that allows people that have already invested their money because they've been given approval to do something. You guys can't take that away. It's just not fair.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you both. Next, we have Nadav Aster.
Speaker 0: My name is Nadav Asher. I live in Denver. I'm an attorney here in Denver. And my firm represents a number of marijuana businesses, lenders, investors, landlords.
Speaker 5: You name it.
Speaker 0: I can't speak on behalf of all my clients today, but I speak on my own behalf when I say that I support a proposal, but I don't support this proposal.
Speaker 10: I'm going to talk a little bit about.
Speaker 0: The specific language, but I do want to say that I hope that if this proposal does pass, there's an opportunity to comment on the seven amendments because they are vastly different than the language of the proposal itself.
Speaker 5: And I'd like everyone here to be not to be disenfranchized and have their voice heard. I want to respond. There have been a lot of comments about the impact on the community in certain neighborhoods, in certain oversaturated areas.
Speaker 5: Certainly that's the case. There are oversaturated, saturated areas.
Speaker 0: You can drive around town.
Speaker 5: You know exactly where they are. The problem is that the people who are in those areas, the.
Speaker 0: Businesses in those areas, didn't necessarily choose to be in those areas. That's a product of Denver, Denver's zoning regulations, Denver's code, municipal code that has pushed people into these neighborhoods. And I do.
Speaker 5: Want to say that there are significant efforts by my clients, by many industry actors to to do farmer's markets, to do.
Speaker 0: Community outreach initiatives, to help better the community and to essentially to deny.
Speaker 5: Pending applications or to to tell the world that this industry is as bad because certain neighborhoods have more marijuana than others. It's a little bit unfair.
Speaker 0: Specifically, the language.
Speaker 5: Of the ordinance that I want to discuss relates around the lottery. There's been a lot of discussion about this oversaturation. I know that's a huge concern from speaking to many of you. This bill is going to. Encourage a secondary market.
Speaker 5: And again, I know that many of you do not like the idea of a secondary market where licenses, pieces of papers are selling for hundreds of thousands of dollars. This bill to keep a lottery in place to prevent new actors from coming in online is going to have businesses sell their licenses on the open market.
Speaker 5: It's going to do. The unintended consequences of this bill are staggering. And I really hope that you guys take some time to reconsider what the language of this ordinance says before you.
Speaker 0: Before you take your vote. Excuse me. Freezing dispensaries.
Speaker 5: In saturated neighborhoods by not allowing them.
Speaker 0: To locate dislocate from their.
Speaker 5: Growth is is a huge problem for for me and for many of my clients. The language of the bill talks about changing a location. If you're going to move a store, you have to move the licenses, associate with the store.
Speaker 5: So if you have a facility with a grow a store and a meat facility, for example, you would have to if you want to move the store, you have to move the others. What you're doing.
Speaker 0: Is essentially encouraging people to take businesses maybe from a beneficial neighborhood.
Speaker 5: A good neighborhood, and move it to one of these saturated neighborhoods, you know, as you're calling them, sort of bad neighborhoods. But but they're not. There's a lot of room for improvement on this language. There's a lot of room to make a an effective proposal that will satisfy your desires and.
Speaker 0: Will help the community and the industry to.
Speaker 5: Grow. And currently, we're just not there yet.
Speaker 3: So I think it remains. Nathan Mindel And as Mr. Mindel comes up, I'll call the next five names Truman, Bradley, Paul Andrews, Patrick O'Malley, Mike Elliott. And it's just one name, Angelina. So, Mr. Mindel, you can begin your remarks.
Speaker 5: My name is Nathan Mendel. I live at 7362 East Mansfield Avenue in your district, Councilwoman Black. I own two companies. I own Mendel in company construction. We are a commercial general contractor and have been for 19 years. Five years ago I started a second company called Your Green Contractor specifically so that we could build marijuana projects in
Speaker 5: and around the Denver area. We have doubled in size since we started building marijuana projects. We have 32 employees now. What I wanted to talk about specifically in an overall picture, I'm a free market capitalist. I don't think there should be any caps on any business.
Speaker 5: It was mentioned earlier the number of restaurants, the number of contractors, the number of marijuana businesses should be determined by the market. But what I wanted to talk about specifically was the pending applications and the fact of changing the rules at the 11th hour for companies that have spent and invested millions and millions of dollars under a
Speaker 5: set of rules that they were told to work by. And now those are potentially changing as they're in the process. The process takes months and months and months, in addition to the either hundreds of thousands or literally millions of dollars that are invested to get to the point that they're at.
Speaker 5: I understand if you're going to put a cap on the number of licenses, if that's the decision that you make, I understand that. But you need to give people fair notice that this is going to happen on a certain date so that they can understand that the rules are going to change.
Speaker 5: And they know that if they're not in the queue by that time, that they're not going to be a part of the system. But to go back retroactively and say we are now going to go and take this away for you that have spent this dollars doesn't work at all.
Speaker 5: And is is not what the people of the city and county of Denver, I believe, want in this case. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Truman. Bradlee. We are just that. 10 minutes left.
Speaker 12: Good evening. Members of council. My name is Truman Bradley. I don't live in the city of Denver. I do own. Ah. I do want a business located here. I'm standing here before you. Holding job descriptions right now for 20 jobs.
Speaker 12: These are not lousy minimum wage positions. These are middle skills, as well as high paying jobs, all with benefits. Mr. Herndon. These great jobs are in your district. Council members. If you amend the bill before you to deny the spendings, you will destroy these and hundreds of other jobs.
Speaker 12: Denying pending applications after people have invested their life savings would be truly devastating. Hundreds of locally owned small businesses would be wiped out. You've heard from many of them. I would be one of them. This won't just impact cannabis companies.
Speaker 12: It will likely wipe out construction companies such as Mr. Mendez, as well as others. It will wipe out vendors, landlords and employees. Denver licenses over 200 different industries. Denying pending applications that are otherwise in good standing sends a clear message that Denver is too dangerous a city in which to invest.
Speaker 12: This applies to restaurants, hotels, breweries, hospitals, you name it. Denver has always honored its commitments with the business community. As Councilwoman Kennedy said in the committee meeting. There is no precedent for going back and denying these pending. What you guys are doing is simply cruel.
Speaker 12: Please don't set this terrible precedent. Please instead send a message to all industries that businesses can trust what Denver says. I'm sure you will hear testimony tonight about so-called concentration issues. Most of these state concerns about either crime or odor.
Speaker 12: As Councilwoman Kennish pointed out in the last committee meeting. Crime data shows that cannabis companies actually have an extremely low incidence of crime, in fact, due to the high number of cameras at the facilities. Many neighborhoods are, in fact, safer.
Speaker 12: Camera footage from my own company has helped solve three crimes that had nothing to do with cannabis. A domestic dispute, a traffic issue, and a break in a few doors down. As for odor, this council is hard at work on a comprehensive odor ordinance.
Speaker 12: This will take care of the odor issues. Councilwoman, nature's bill is tough on the cannabis cannabis industry. You've heard mixed reviews here. That's a pretty good indication that it's fair. It protects the communities while keeping faith with the business community.
Speaker 12: Please pass this bill out as it is written with only Councilwoman Gilmore's amendment. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Paul. Paul Anders. Paul Andrews.
Speaker 12: Thank you, members of council. I'm Paul Andrews, the president and CEO of the National Western Stock Show and Complex, located at 4655 Humboldt Street. Has leadership of the Nation Western Stock Show. We're writing to express our support for capping new cultivation and retail licenses going forward and limiting pending licenses in the Globeville area and Swansea and neighborhoods
Speaker 5: . Which we will call geese from.
Speaker 12: This point forward, either by enforcing the 1000 foot rule or by another standard baits based on saturation.
Speaker 5: In the area.
Speaker 12: Over the last three and a half years, the National Western Stock Show, our neighbors in the city of Denver have worked together to develop the nation a Western Center master plan. That plan was Adobe adopted by the city last November, and the people of Denver approve the ballot measure to see to fund the development of the National
Speaker 12: Western Center. The Nation Western Stock Show and CSU are equity partners with the city and are committed to the success of the National Western Center. We're starting now to build a world class facility where businesses and neighbors will work together to welcome visitors from around the United States and in fact, the world.
Speaker 12: We are building a neighborhood that is thriving, welcoming and safe, both for residents and visitors. We understand that marijuana businesses are part of our community, but we have to ask how much one community can handle. We need to foster a diverse business space that meets the needs of the community.
Speaker 12: The overabundance of marijuana cultivation and retail facilities in the neighborhoods surrounding our complex has created challenges for our community. As leaders of an organization that's been part of Denver for 110 years, we want to ensure the exhibitors and attendees feel safe and welcome at our show.
Speaker 12: Driving through the neighborhood and smelling marijuana or witnessing a police presence at a local store is not particularly inviting. While not all facilities have issues that warrant a police presence or create unwanted odors, those that do create an unwelcoming environment for current and future guests to the National Western Center as well as a global hilarious wants your
Speaker 12: residents and businesspeople allowing additional facilities to be licensed and located. And yes, will continue to compound these problems. And we hope council members will consider this as they move forward with the legislation and amendments today. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Andrews. Next, Patrick O'Malley.
Speaker 12: Thank you. Patrick O'Malley live in Longmont. I have a medical nips in Montebello neighborhood. I only wish to speak tonight against any current or future proposed amendments that might apply to MIPS. I did have the pleasure of having a couple of council members through my MEPs over the last couple of months and while there the main point
Speaker 12: was to demonstrate that MIPS are really part of any solution for.
Speaker 10: Well, not all problems, but certainly some of the problems.
Speaker 12: That you're wrestling with here today. MIPS are part of the solution because they both create jobs and more importantly because they help reduce the risk of diversion out of state of product that might not otherwise be able to be sold.
Speaker 12: And I do yield the rest of my time.
Speaker 3: And you. Next, we have Mike Elliott and we are approaching one hour. I'll allow six more minutes for the two times we have translations. Mr. Elliott, feel free to begin your remarks.
Speaker 12: Thank you. Council members. My name is Mike Elliott, executive director of the Marijuana Industry Group. With regards to the pending applications, we are encouraging you to please support these and let these go through. With regards to them, we are trying to find this right balance with the community.

Speaker 12: Thank you. Council members. My name is Mike Elliott, executive director of the Marijuana Industry Group. With regards to the pending applications, we are encouraging you to please support these and let these go through. With regards to them, we are trying to find this right balance with the community.
Speaker 12: We I've certainly spent a number of times listening to other folks, stakeholders, neighborhood groups about finding that right balance, which is why we are supporting the CAPS but would like the pennies to go through because of the commitment that the city has made with the industry.
Speaker 12: But really, for for my time, I'd really like to focus on one issue that hasn't gotten a lot of attention this evening, and that would be the distance requirements that the new proposed distance requirements from grows to residential communities.
Speaker 12: Now, the piece of this is in these oversaturated neighborhoods. We need to come up with some clever ways of figuring out how to deal with that. And we're certainly open to talking to the community about maybe incentives and whatnot.
Speaker 12: But when it gets down to it, a thousand feet from residential and schools dramatically limits the ability of grow facilities to move to other places in the city that are not necessarily saturated. This piece about residential facilities well, I'll tell you, we're going to be at the Denver council meeting tomorrow.
Speaker 12: The committee meeting tomorrow talking about the odor ordinance. We've been working with the city the on this piece and trying to come up with solutions to that, which is really where a lot of the solution comes from here.
Speaker 12: But that thousand feet from residential communities, it limits the ability of people to move. And it's quite possibly be going it's quite possibly have people stuck in bad landlord relationships and unable to move. So moving it to 500 feet or getting rid of it altogether seems like a much better way to go.
Speaker 12: Thank you for your thoughtful deliberation, council members.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Elliott. Next, Angelina. Angelina in the room.
Speaker 4: When I started those stories, he said that our organization.
Speaker 3: Actually the one that we have trained, we have just.
Speaker 8: So it must get stranger. And there are trabajadores emotions.
Speaker 4: Yes. Para el mismo tiempo. Is that Estaban and Comunidades? We know that these businesses generate income and they generate earnings, but we know that they're also affecting our communities. LA Marijuana the battery workforce.
Speaker 8: Fair or not, I used to observe.
Speaker 4: Circle impact of. That marijuana will employ people. But there aren't very many studies in regards to the impact up in L.A..
Speaker 8: PETROVA Hong Kong is the.
Speaker 4: Droga that people will will have the people that are employed by this drug. No cat and mouse canister of horribleness. Estén trabalhando being al vocalist Tanya Sosa lo. Issoufou We don't want our youth to be working with something that will damage their health and their future.
Speaker 4: Queremos Nuestro Nuestro.
Speaker 8: Seahorse.
Speaker 4: Continuing as to the end of it things I will Nakahara University area but I support anything we want our children to continue studying and to have a university degree for a better future. Guitars. Yes, thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. All right. We still have some time left that bekind speakers up individually next. Tiffany Goldman is Tiffany Goldman in the room? She left next. Benjamin Roldan. Benjamin Roldan. Please send after Benjamin. Amanda Gonzalez.
Speaker 13: Thanks you council members. My name is Benjamin. Or then I live in the city of Denver, two 3019 Avenue. And today I want to talk to a point and nobody has talked. And he's how will the environment affects the quality of life of those that live we need that have a masters in urban planning and everything that
Speaker 13: is taught these how their environment affects the environment that being of the person right and Denver is his training for that approach. He's putting better sidewalks, he's putting better trees, he's playing better roads. It's creating bike lanes in the grow in the neighborhoods of Coalville.
Speaker 13: Here is when we see the opposite. Right? These neighborhoods have been under desert for centuries. Under the smelters that they were put there, they contaminated their residents and the future of that community. Also, I-70 has been a great impact of this, putting these neighborhoods outside the scope of the city.
Speaker 13: We see a lack of sidewalks outside of public investment. Until now, we've been seeing a lot of investment, but these investment has been negative to these communities. First, prices in rent have been increasing, taking out the communities that are most vulnerable.
Speaker 13: Most of the marijuana impacts have damage the well-being of these communities. Just because he makes marijuana more accessible to the kids, they see it as some commodity that they should use. Maybe that happens in the whole city. But these neighborhoods are vulnerable, so maybe they don't have the opportunity to go to a place or go to swimming
Speaker 13: classes or take music lessons. These communities are working class and they don't have the capabilities economically, socially or culturally to fight for their future. So what I'm asking is for please consider this approach and do not damage longer the future of their residents.
Speaker 13: So please says yes to Ortega's proposals. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Amanda Gonzalez.
Speaker 4: Good evening. My name is Amanda Gonzalez. I manage a business at 3937 West Colfax. Let's see. I know many of you from my previous work in the nonprofit sector. Prior to working with Southwest Alternative Care, I worked to better the lives of Latinos, working class people and middle class folks in Colorado with Claro and Sealife.
Speaker 4: Part of what I love about my current position is that I get to put a lot of the practices, a lot of the policies that I was advocating for in my previous position into action. At our business, we've never paid an employee minimum wage.
Speaker 4: Our non probationary wage for a most entry level employee is currently 1150 an hour plus tips. We also offer paid sick days and vacation time. Additionally, this team is the most diverse that I've ever worked with. 40% of our staff identify as people of color.
Speaker 4: 20% are out as LGBT at work. And an additional 20% of our staff live in the same zip codes as our shop and are able to walk to work. Although this industry is not always portrayed in a flattering light, we are good employers.
Speaker 4: In fact, we're the kind of small businesses where coworkers feel like family, and we work hard every day to create the kind of jobs, work, environment and communities that will make our employees and our city proud. The cost of doing all of this is tremendous.
Speaker 4: Updates to buildings can cost millions of dollars and licenses can cost tens of thousands more. Once a business is open, we pay our retail employees out of our profits. Because of IRS Code 280, which limits what we can deduct as business expenses while our business does not have a pending application.
Speaker 4: I'm standing in solidarity with my fellow CEOs, business owners and business owners who invested thousands, if not millions of dollars in reliance on a city process that has traditionally license business, that has followed the rules. As business owners and business leaders, we are doing our very best to improve our communities.
Speaker 4: Preventing is preventing pending business applications from being approved could be devastating for many local Denver residents and businesses, causing people who live and work to lose the money they invest, they've invested and causing our employees to lose their jobs.
Speaker 4: It would also make it even harder for us to create the kinds of jobs in the communities that we would like to thank you for your consideration.
Speaker 3: Thank you. All right. We that is hour one hour, courtesy of public hearing, as well as the allotment for the Spanish translation. So thank you to all our speakers and our apologies for those that did not have the opportunity to speak.
Speaker 3: We are moving on to questions, and I would just like to say that counsel, we have questions. We have seven amendments and then we have the actual bill to discuss. So if there is any way we could follow the premise of less is more, that would be fantastic.
Speaker 3: So we'll start with questions. I'm scrolling down towards the bottom. I see.
Speaker 5: Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 8: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to move to amend Council Bill 16 to 64. In the following particulars.
Speaker 2: They're just two in question.
Speaker 3: But, Councilwoman, hold on before. This is what I. This is what I do. Any questions for speakers? I'll go questions first, and then we're going to go. Amendments. The same order that we gave the presentation. So if if there's any way we can just go in that order.
Speaker 3: That would be great. You will absolutely get your opportunity for the amendment. I just think that would be easier for the floor. I want to make sure we get through questions first for council members, haven't any speakers or to Councilwoman Canete or to David Broadwell about any bill or amendment, if we could just do those questions first
Speaker 3: and then we'll come to the amendment if that's okay with you.
Speaker 8: Questions of some of the speakers.
Speaker 3: Okay. Thank you.
Speaker 8: The first one is Rita. I can't pronounce the last name, too, Lasky. I don't know if she's still here. I. Will you come to the microphone? So you talked about that. You. You have had a lease for five years and a location.
Speaker 4: I signed the lease for five years.
Speaker 8: You signed it for five years? How long ago did you sign that lease?
Speaker 4: Signed it in November.
Speaker 8: Okay. I thought the way you had explained that. You said you had a lease for five.
Speaker 4: Sorry. Okay. I signed it.
Speaker 8: So, do you have an existing operating business?
Speaker 4: No. I'm waiting for licenses, but, you know, I am kind of open.
Speaker 8: That's all I need to know. I have a number of questions, and we're all going to be asking questions. Thank you very much. The next person is. Nick Lovullo. I'm not asking you to come up. I just want to.
Speaker 8: You made a comment about we should be staying out of regulating this industry. We should just leave it as a free market.
Speaker 3: If you if you are going to come up and I know Councilman Ortega asked you that if you're going to rebut, I would please ask that you come.
Speaker 8: I'm not asking for a rebuttal.
Speaker 3: Okay. So.
Speaker 8: So I'm just I'm just making reference to, you know, a comment.
Speaker 3: I want I want to be fair to the people. If we can't, we're not to comment, period right now. So I would just ask if if you have a question, go. So but I find it unfair to to have some I stand up, give a comment and not allow them to rebut.
Speaker 3: If we're not in the comment period, if we're not in the comment, if we're in a comment period, feel free to say whatever you want. But at this point.
Speaker 8: For this one until the comment.
Speaker 3: Okay, thank you.
Speaker 8: All right. Let's see the the next one. And Michael Liebowitz. Rabinowitz. But if you can come forward, I do have a question for you. The location on West 38th Avenue is was the issue that it was within a thousand feet of a school?
Speaker 8: Is that why you were being told that you couldn't?
Speaker 5: Yes, but it was approved as a thousand feet within the pedestrian walkway. So when I went forward with it, it was initially approved. So I think.
Speaker 8: So. So were you told that when you made application that part of your responsibility was to look and make sure that there was no school? Because the school provision has been in place for quite some time.
Speaker 5: It absolutely has.
Speaker 3: In fact, it's 0.4 miles on Google Maps.
Speaker 5: The issue is not to get too much in my detail, but it's like a corner yard of the school to like the back.
Speaker 0: Part of my house, the property line.
Speaker 5: Feet. But yeah, as the straight line goes, it ends up being 990 something feet. So.
Speaker 8: Thank you. I think that's it for right now. Go ahead.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Councilwoman Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Well, thanks to President Pro Tem Rita Chadwick, is she you're still here. I want to ask you just one question, if you could come up. Thank you. And Patrick O'Malley also. Rita, where is your business?
Speaker 4: 1136 Yuma. It's zip code to zero four. Okay.
Speaker 7: And you live in Greenwood Village?
Speaker 4: I live in Greenwood Village and have a lot of businesses in Denver. Okay.
Speaker 7: And does Greenwood Village allow marijuana businesses?
Speaker 4: No.
Speaker 7: Have you ever gone to the Greenwood Village City Council and ask them to change that?
Speaker 4: No. But they have applied this Greenwood Village. Okay.
Speaker 7: But you haven't lobbied your own city to allow these businesses. No. Okay. And Mr. O'Malley, same question. You live in Longmont. I know there are some some some shops around outside the city limits, but the city of Longmont, my understanding is, does not permit recreational marijuana either.
Speaker 12: You're 100% correct.
Speaker 7: Have you ever asked Longmont to accept these means? As I know, in Littleton, for instance, there's a drive to open up Littleton. I don't know if they've done it yet or not.
Speaker 12: Well, well, certainly, Major. Just being one small businessman, that would be probably a gargantuan task. But I did view Denver as being basically the Silicon Valley of marijuana and, quite frankly, the optimal place to build such a business.
Speaker 12: Mm hmm.
Speaker 10: Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
Speaker 7: Mr. President, for a time, I'll defer my other question. I just wanted to ask Mr. Park. Maybe I'll see him later, but I just was curious when Denver stopped being cool in the first place. But I'll ask you later.
Speaker 7: I said it was cool again. I didn't know. I didn't know he had stopped. But thank you.
Speaker 3: Makes Councilman Flynn, Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. Is Gregory Wright still here? All right. Well, if he's not here, I don't have a question for you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Clark.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. Am I right? Go ahead, Councilman.
Speaker 5: Before you go ahead.
Speaker 10: Oh, am I right in that I can ask questions of Councilwoman Kennedy as the as the one who proposed this at this time?
Speaker 4: Oh.
Speaker 10: Mr. President.
Speaker 3: I'm sorry. Yeah. Any questions of council member? You can do as well.
Speaker 10: So as we've been going through this, there's a lot in here with a lot of amendments that take it in a lot of different directions. I kind of break it into three areas. There's the proposal on the table.
Speaker 10: Councilwoman can with the caps, how do we grow? How do we handle locations moving forward? We also have how do we handle pending applications, applications that are in the queue right now? And then how do we look at protecting neighborhoods, especially neighborhoods that are I can't remember the word that we're using now, oversaturated.
Speaker 10: I'll stick with that until I can find out one. So, Councilman, can you could you just speak briefly to the pending side? I know there are a lot of amendments that get to the protection for neighborhoods to meet.
Speaker 10: I feel of what you've proposed is the caps and how we move forward in total. I personally think, you know, it might be useful if we looked at all three of these and almost voted on all three of these separately.
Speaker 10: Could you speak a little bit to what's in yours just on pending and what it would take to kind of vote separately on that?
Speaker 9: Thank you. Councilman Clark. So, in fact, I think we did in committee go through and vote on each of these types of issues through straw polling. So in part, I mean, I say that it's ironic that my name is on this bill because mostly I added things to the bill based on all of the feedback from the
Speaker 9: community as well as from the council. So, you know, each of the things that got added came from those straw polls. So the bill has the two protections for communities are the caps and the distancing requirements. And just to review the districts, the thousand foot residential buffer zone eliminates 60% of the locations for grows.
Speaker 9: The schools limitation of a thousand feet eliminates about 10% of the locations for growth. Now, some of those are hit twice. So what I generally say to folks is it will limit between 60 and 70% of locations for transfers of locations or for new locations.
Speaker 9: So that is the that is the neighborhood protection piece. And then the pending applications. The bill has a safety clause at the end of it. And we did we voted on this in committee two times at least. So to your to your request, it it was it would not be here if it had not survived two committee
Speaker 9: votes already of a committee of the whole. And I know that you were absent for some of those meetings because of family obligations. But but we had we had voted on it twice. And that's why that that provision is still in the bill.
Speaker 9: And I think that had to do with the very far distance that those businesses had gone, that 90% of the pending were in the building phase. They were not just having their paperwork reviewed. They were actually in the construction phase of building, permitting, etc..
Speaker 9: So, so so that was the the reason why that provision is still in the bill. We'll get to vote on it again with Councilwoman Ortega's amendment number two. So there will be a vote on that issue in this in this next round.
Speaker 9: I hope that answers your question.
Speaker 10: Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President. Undue concentration was the word I was looking for. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Clarke. Councilman Espinosa. Questions.
Speaker 5: Maybe you should have been concentrating for Nick, what you did say. And go ahead and if you can come up here. Is. We are several standard deviations away from what people care about. What do people.
Speaker 0: Said were several standard deviations away from the largest problem facing the city when Denver when marijuana is 0.03% of all crime in Denver. Yes, that's what I said.
Speaker 5: I don't know. I'm still not understanding what that means.
Speaker 0: It means you're focusing your focus for the last five months on the tiniest quintile. Something that shouldn't have been really a priority.
Speaker 5: That's what I'm saying. And so what should be our priorities?
Speaker 0: Around this business. Well, it. What should be your priority as far as as far as marijuana and regulating dispensaries is concerned? Your top priority should be agreeing with what you have already decided to do, which is fulfilling the laws of the past and allowing everybody whose applications are pending through that should be number one priority.
Speaker 0: I don't even know I'm put on the spot. I look, I'm happy to.
Speaker 5: You know. No, I was asking because I don't I. I misunderstood. I understood it the way I wrote it. So thank you. Okay. And then so that was my only question, actually.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Espinosa. Councilman Brooks.
Speaker 5: Okay. Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. I have a just a couple of folks I want to hear from from the community. Is Nancy Grace Jones in here from Globeville? Can I ask you a quick question? Come to the mike.
Speaker 5: Yeah. I can't hear you from there. You can come around. And Nola, if you would. Come on up and follow her as well. Appreciate it. So. You know, we've heard a lot from the industry. We heard from a few community folks about some of the concerns.
Speaker 5: I think it's really interesting that there's business individuals you represent one of them in the community that are are really concerned about the concentration, the saturation in this area. And so just love for for you to talk about your concern specifically for a couple of seconds.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 9: Thank you. Councilman Brooks and the other council members for hearing me. Yes, I'm a business owner in Globeville, and I got involved with.
Speaker 4: Globeville as.
Speaker 9: Part of my my moral compass.
Speaker 4: About being a good corporate citizen. I got involved with the Globeville planning process.
Speaker 9: And here.
Speaker 4: We have the Globeville.
Speaker 9: Plan.
Speaker 4: Which has.
Speaker 9: Extensive information in it about land use.
Speaker 4: For the Globeville neighborhood. We have the Health Impact Assessment, which also talks about for the Globeville, O'Leary, Swansea and Neighborhoods. And we've created.
Speaker 9: A vision which Mayor Hancock.
Speaker 4: Has uplifted.
Speaker 9: The neighborhood plan.
Speaker 4: Says one of the six priorities in the North Denver Cornerstone Collaborative because it has been a neglected area.
Speaker 9: And we have a promise here from the.
Speaker 4: City about what we can't, how.
Speaker 9: We can transform a neglected and abused neighborhood. And you know what?
Speaker 4: This process has set up an adverse.
Speaker 9: Adversarial nature between the marijuana.
Speaker 4: Businesses.
Speaker 9: And the community members, which I think is very unfair. I'm a business owner.
Speaker 4: Council members have said.
Speaker 9: I've heard them say unintended consequences. City Council did not.
Speaker 4: Create the saturation problem.
Speaker 9: Zoning and zoning and free market did.
Speaker 4: Well, guess what? I didn't create it either.
Speaker 9: It's not the.
Speaker 4: Residents faults there that are.
Speaker 9: Low income people.
Speaker 4: That have no other place to live. Unintended consequences of having these marijuana businesses. Yes, you acted in good faith, but guess what?
Speaker 9: Don't blame it on us.
Speaker 4: Either, because we want to protect children from the schools. Children in schools. And we have people who are living right next door to marijuana businesses. And probably you don't do that. Your children or grandchildren aren't in those situations.
Speaker 4: So again, it's a problem for city.
Speaker 9: Council to figure this.
Speaker 4: Out. Maybe there needs to be some deeper diving on those pending applications, but with. 441 locations Elyria, Swansea and Globeville have 25% with 2% of the population. It is not fair and balanced. City Council didn't intend for that to happen, but that's what it is.
Speaker 9: And adding more, even.
Speaker 4: Adding three more in Swansea, a three gross, I mean three marijuana businesses that will be now next to a city park. How is that fair and balanced? It's not okay for the neighborhoods to bear to carry that anymore.
Speaker 4: So anyway, I mean, I had lots more comments.
Speaker 5: Yeah, I think. Thank you so much. Thank you.
Speaker 9: I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunity, Robert.
Speaker 5: And then I'm going to bring up Nola, who represents a nonprofit. Live well and a lot of neighbors there. What you know, the crux of the argument tonight is around pending the pending applications. You know, why are you all organizing against the pending applications, especially in Angie's?
Speaker 4: Well, we've looked at the specific locations of the pending locations within Elyria and Swansea in particular. There are three that are directly adjacent to.
Speaker 9: Denham Park, two.
Speaker 4: Cultivation and one retail.
Speaker 9: Which we're very concerned.
Speaker 4: One of the committee community members that wasn't able to speak tonight lives adjacent to that park. So there is residential.
Speaker 9: And a park.
Speaker 4: And there's already, you know, several blocks away. There's already a whole cluster of cultivation along York and Josephine there that's already giving the orders and so on. So it's cases like that that we really need to think about with these pending licenses.
Speaker 4: If these are responsible neighbor or businesses that care about the neighborhoods, would they want to go right into the middle of a residential neighborhood? Could could we do anything with circumstances like this where these pending licenses are really going to affect the quality of.
Speaker 9: Life in these neighborhoods? Could we look at some of these cases one by one?
Speaker 5: Right. Okay. Thank you. That's it, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Brooks. All right. We're going to a second round of questions. And once again, colleagues, if we could try to get them, move them through as fast as we can. Councilwoman Ortega, you're up.
Speaker 8: I have a question either for Marlee or for Stacie Loucks. And this is about the omnibus bill that we had adopted. It's my recollection that there were some provisions in there that had a direct impact on pending applications back then when that omnibus bill was adopted.
Speaker 8: I don't know which one of you be able to address this.
Speaker 11: There were some provisions that the the the omnibus bill did affect existing pending applications. And I forget who addressed this, but that changed the distance measuring method from direct pedestrian access to straight line method, and it impacted medical centers only, not retail.
Speaker 11: They were already straight line and it affected medical centers distance from schools and also from daycare centers.
Speaker 8: And I just think it was important to remind the audience that we have done this in the past. And, you know, it's completely within our purview to be able to do this because this is still not a legal industry in the in the federal government.
Speaker 8: I so I think it was important to just clarify that. I want to just make a very brief comment, as we have heard.
Speaker 3: Councilwoman, I don't want to interrupt. This is important note, but it's a comment. If we.
Speaker 8: Have neighbors, if we are going.
Speaker 3: To have.
Speaker 8: A laugh, if we're.
Speaker 3: Going to.
Speaker 8: Have insulting.
Speaker 3: That is that is your prerogative when you get to the comment period. But I'm trying to get us to move through as efficiently as possible so we could just get to questions. We'll go to the amendments. I just I want to get this through without people going on tangents.
Speaker 3: And so if we could just things.
Speaker 8: For residents that have been given to the industry people.
Speaker 3: So I would. Perfect. Thank you. And any other questions, Councilor want to take? No. All right. Thank you. Councilman, questions were still on. Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: My question was on one of the amendments. I'll defer.
Speaker 3: Councilman Flint.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. Is the gentleman still here who had the shop on West Colfax that the inspector came into?
Speaker 4: So we're.
Speaker 5: Here? Yeah.
Speaker 7: He's. He's gone. Okay. I was just looking for a clarification on what happened there. Is Mali, could you answer another question for me in the draft bill? There is a clause that talks about one of the. Or David?
Speaker 7: Either one. There's a clause. There's a section in the bill that talks about the director of excise and license coming up with procedures during the blind lottery so that an entrant would have better odds of winning a license by proposing a location other than in the, whatever we're calling them, neighborhoods now.
Speaker 7: Do we have what what procedures do we have in mind? I'm a little uncomfortable voting yes or no without understanding what might have been discussed that that I'm not aware of. Does anybody know what procedures, excise and licenses discussed?
Speaker 14: David Broadwell, assistant city attorney, and I may defer to Councilwoman Canady to respond as well. But let me echo something she said a while ago, which is just bear in mind that if the Fifth Amendment, Councilman Clark is going to offer is adopted, it will strike that language.
Speaker 14: So it'll be a moot point. But if that language does remain in the bill, the sort of thing that was intended, it would be to say that if you've got an entrant in the lottery and they're proposing a location that's not in one of the more kind of concentrated neighborhoods, they might get their name in the hat
Speaker 14: twice as opposed to once, thus improving their chance of a draw. And if you're familiar, well, I won't use any analogies, but there are other lotteries that work like that, and that's the idea that was intended when that was originally drafted.
Speaker 7: Okay. Thank you. I believe that's all, Mr. President. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Flynn. We're still on questions, Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 4: Thank you. So there are three potential pending rows across from a park in Globeville. Larry and Swansea are the owners of those available to answer questions. I'm just curious if how far along they are in their construction. Now here.
Speaker 4: Okay. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Black. Still on questions, Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 9: Mr. President, if I may.
Speaker 3: Go ahead, Councilwoman.
Speaker 9: I don't know. We have a list of all the pending grows in front of us, and we have someone from from CPD here. So I'm going to. If it's okay with the president, I'd like to ask her to look and see if she can figure out which of these addresses are the ones.
Speaker 9: And then two to come back to answer.
Speaker 3: The question if we.
Speaker 5: Mr.. Mr. President, can I have them work with somebody from the neighborhood to just speed up so they can if.
Speaker 9: Someone from the community wants to come with Jill to make sure we're looking at the right addresses, that would be great.
Speaker 3: All right. Still on questions, Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: Before Nola does that, Nola, I actually have a question for you. Sorry. The thousand foot requirement is roughly three blocks is just moving these businesses three blocks away from residences and schools. Is that enough? Or is is more need to be done?
Speaker 4: I think it would be huge. But we have a tenant that are existing in that thousand feet area over 30 within a year in Swansea. I think it would make it will make a huge difference to have them out.
Speaker 4: There's very. Clear industrial areas within Illyria in Swansea that are far, far away from residential, that, you know, there are a lot of businesses, marijuana businesses that don't bother the neighborhoods that are in those areas for sure. But it would also saturate those industrial areas with marijuana.
Speaker 5: So is oversaturation in a purely industrial neighborhood. The same thing is one that is a mix of industrial and residential.
Speaker 4: Well, you also see there's a lot less population overall. So you can look at percentiles as well. That should still work, if that makes sense.
Speaker 5: Yeah, it does. Because in this one get to my question for council woman black man Joel on Clark later. Thanks.
Speaker 3: You get to, councilman?
Speaker 5: All right. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Still on questions, Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. And Elizabeth, can I ask you. Didn't come up in in your presentation tonight but you have some ideas about incentivizing businesses to of their own relocate from areas of undue concentration. Can you speak to that for a minute?
Speaker 11: Sure. I appreciate the opportunity. This this goes to recognizing and respecting the investments that are pending on pending licenses. License applications have accrued in this unknown environment of risk, where this very unique problem has come about, which is very different from a saturation of restaurants.
Speaker 11: There's more sociological and environmental, economic, land use, neighborhood plan alignment, etc., issues with something like this. So I feel creatively it would be fair in the welfare of the well-being of neighborhoods for the city to recognize.
Speaker 0: That there have been.
Speaker 11: Unknown knowns and that those that have invested can somehow be worked with to relocate if, you know, within Denver.
Speaker 0: Or within another city in a way that creates a.
Speaker 11: Mechanism of financial compensation for this mis estimation of a new industry. And so I think it's something I myself would even support some of the taxes that were collected being returned to businesses to save the neighborhoods for a better diversity of businesses and environment.
Speaker 11: And that I appreciate the idea of the participatory budget ideas coming up for for some of this compensation, but we don't need to wait. The industry itself can become maybe more engaged.
Speaker 0: With the compensating the sociological.
Speaker 11: Impact within the neighborhoods around the businesses. So I think it's fair for the businesses that have invested to to have a mechanism. But I think we need to get really creative to to make that happen.
Speaker 0: Thank you.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Cashman. All right. Questions? Any other questions from members of council? Right. Thank you. We are moving along. So now the public hearings were canceled. Bill 264 is closed. Council members and audience, what we're going to do now, I'm going to have council members formally offer their amendments if they still choose to do so.
Speaker 3: We will start in the order we went earlier. Councilman Clark, please put your amendment on the floor.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. I move to amend Council Bill 16 to 64 in the following particulars on page four, line 12, add the following definition 11 Statistical neighborhood means the geographical neighborhood boundaries established by the city and county of Denver in 1970, in conjunction with the Community Renewal Program, consisting of combinations of census tracts to which the
Speaker 10: city has assigned geographic place names corresponding to commonly used names of subdivisions and historical parts of the city. On page six, line 13 strike language after the word appeal, strike lines 14 through 20. On page seven, line 33, add the following Prior to the first annual open application process administered by the director.
Speaker 10: Under this section, the Director shall determine the number of license locations where medical marijuana centers, retail marijuana stores or both exist in each statistical neighborhood of the city. Likewise, the director shall determine the number of license locations where medical marijuana, optional premises, cultivation facilities, retail marijuana cultivation facilities or both exist in each statistical neighborhood of the city
Speaker 10: . The director shall then identify the five statistical neighborhoods where the highest number of licensed marijuana sales locations exist. And the five statistical neighborhoods were the highest number of licensed marijuana cultivation locations exist. The statistical neighborhoods, thus identified by the director, shall be considered neighborhoods of undue concentration of marijuana business licensing and shall be prohibited from further licensing
Speaker 10: as part of the annual open application process for the year in question. To the extent that there is a tie in the number of licensed location among two or more statistical neighborhoods with the fifth most licensed locations, then all such neighborhoods shall be treated as neighborhoods of undue licensing and shall be prohibited from further licensing as part
Speaker 10: of the annual open application process. Entry into the lottery for a retail marijuana store license shall be denied for any applicant proposing to locate a retail marijuana store in any statistical neighborhood determined by the director to be a neighborhood of undue concentration based upon the current number of locations of medical marijuana centers, retail marijuana stores, or both
Speaker 10: in the statistical neighborhood. Entry into the lottery for a retail marijuana cultivation facility license shall be denied for any applicant proposing to locate a retail marijuana cultivation facility in any statistical neighborhood determined by the director to be a neighborhood of undue concentration based upon the current number of locations of medical marijuana, optional premises, cultivation facilities, retail marijuana
Speaker 10: stores or both in the statistical neighborhood. Upon the completion of the first open first annual open application process, the Director shall report to the counsel regarding the implementation of this subsection, along with a recommendation about whether or not to continue to restrict licensing in identified statistical neighborhoods in future open application processes.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: I was just I was just reading and I got lost in there. All right. That has been moved and seconded comments on this amendment. Council members, Councilman Espinosa, you chimed in twice. You have that much you want to say now.
Speaker 5: Go right ahead. More of a question, I think, for David on this use of the word undue concentration. You know, in the in the explanation, it says this makes it completely objective. But my understanding is that it's in tries to tie it into a calculation of a numerical definition.
Speaker 5: But undo would be more just a sort of a sense of reasonableness. How is undo defined here?
Speaker 14: The again, David Broadwell, assistant city attorney under concentration, is a term that's used in other laws and including liquor laws and it is so there's some case law around it and so on and so forth. There's no unique definition of it here other than functionally.
Speaker 14: What you get by doing it this way is you're doing a relative comparison of some statistical neighborhoods versus all statistical neighborhoods, and you're seeing which ones are at the top. Now, when it comes to cultivation, for example, there are about a dozen statistical neighborhoods of the city ranging from the north city city limits to the south, where
Speaker 14: there's industrial zoning. Therefore, plant husbandry is allowed where licenses could be for marijuana cultivation. But when when many of them are concentrated toward the top and fewer of them are concentrated toward the bottom of that list, then you don't have the ideal of fair and even dispersion over all the statistical neighborhoods where they could be.
Speaker 14: And so that's where Undue comes in. They've tended to mainly concentrate in a few of the industrial areas and not more generally dispersed over all of the industrial areas. And that's what the math leads you to in terms of what undue means is it's slanted toward some neighborhoods and not others as a result of the numbers.
Speaker 5: In part of this discussion came up from when we were using terms like saturation and oversaturation, and that was driven by largely by GSE and what's going on there. Oddly enough, in the calculation that is, you know, Globeville isn't one of the top five.
Speaker 5: And so my concern is, is that actually you mean Montebello is in the pending applications right now are all on 47th Avenue between Havana and and Peoria, which has zero or close to zero, I'm pretty sure it's zero residential units, which is largely different than the concentration, I mean, the situation we have in Globeville.
Speaker 5: So the my concern is, is is the intent of this amendment to address that the impacts on community? Or is it purely a numbers game? Because I would argue that in an area like that area between Havana and Peoria, you could capture a considerable amount of industry there because it's always been industrial, whereas we had a mix
Speaker 5: . I mean, it didn't grow around community. That was when we sort of had a different zoning. I mean, we specifically did that. Whereas, you know, Globeville historically grew in a different pattern. Um, so is the, is the intent to, to overlook a situation like Globeville in favor of a situation like Montebello?
Speaker 5: Because that's what this language does. Yeah. That's really. I mean, you're co-sponsor with with Stacy I mean because we're not actually addressing one of the hardest impact neighbors Hood's going forward in the in the lottery system this way.
Speaker 10: I again I'm reading this on behalf of Councilwoman Gilmore. I wasn't intimately involved with the drafting of it. And so there may be other people can answer this question better. I think that the problem that we grapple with is how do you define it?
Speaker 10: You know, how do you capture the nuances of zip codes have issues. There are certain parts of a zip code that might, you know, be exactly the area that could handle more in certain areas that aren't statistical. Neighborhoods fall in a similar category, I think in that as we start to try and offer protections for some of
Speaker 10: our neighborhoods, how do we define that? And so I think we have a couple of different options in front of us with these different amendments. You list out the ones that are currently impacted and then you said it in stone.
Speaker 10: And so a new neighborhood is more unduly concentrated down the road. This, you know, allows for an empirical way to look at it and say there are a certain number within these certain boundaries. But, you know, in that specific instance, you may have captured, you know, a loophole in the statistical neighborhood in the same way that there
Speaker 10: would be on zip codes. And and so I think this is an attempt to grapple with how do you provide protections but in a measurable way rather than a a list. But I don't know. I again, I was not as involved.
Speaker 10: And so maybe Mr. Broadwell can speak more to that than I can.
Speaker 14: Just briefly, I think that is a pretty good summary of the conversations I had with Councilwoman Gilmore. And the only other detail I'll add is note that the mechanics of this, the count and the determination of the five protected statistical neighborhoods would not occur until sometime in the future when we're going to actually have an open application
Speaker 14: process and a draw. So some some examples were given of what the type top five would be today, but we don't know exactly if any of those will change. And between now and when there's a first open application process.
Speaker 14: And and on that level, that reminds me an important detail from the the summary that Councilman Clark read earlier. The ordinance contemplates that the earliest there could be an open application process would be 2017, but it may not necessarily occur next year because you can only have the process if you have capacity under the caps.
Speaker 14: And until we see some shakeout, if this ordinance is adopted, we don't know exactly when that's going to be, but it won't necessarily be in 2017. And so the director would be would be directed by this amendment to basically do that count and determine the five highest neighborhoods at the time, whenever that's going to be, that we're
Speaker 14: going to have our first open application process.
Speaker 3: Counselor. That's those.
Speaker 10: Are you good?
Speaker 5: Yeah, mostly. But it still creates the potential for a situation. If it's. If it's truly arbitrary, it still creates the potential for us from excluding potentially places with high numbers of locations that actually are suitable for additional locations.
Speaker 5: Is that correct?
Speaker 14: Just because it focuses on these words like saturation and concentration by giving it a face, by defining that as where there are the most. Right. It doesn't look at the flip side of the coin that you're addressing now, whether even though there's a whole bunch, there's still other opportunities in that neighborhood.
Speaker 14: Now it is purely and simply defines concentration or saturation by how many there are, not how many others there could be in a particular neighborhood. So that's the logic of it, and that's why it's proposed the way it is.
Speaker 5: Okay. Thanks.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Espinosa. Councilwoman, can each.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. I will be supporting this amendment today after some really careful consideration. And again, based on the input, the input that I've heard from Mr. Littlejohn community and from the Globeville area, Swansea community. I think that Councilman Espinosa hits on a point about why we don't want to rush into barring entire geographic areas that
Speaker 9: can be in some cases, including deeply industrial areas that are really far from community from from residential. If the idea is that you want to be able to have, you know, a gravitation over time as new folks come into deeply industrial areas to to turn off access to entire neighborhoods is not done lightly.
Speaker 9: But there's a couple of reasons why I can support this amendment. One is it does it it does it in a time limited fashion and and in purpose. We are going to be if we if we adopt an odor ordinance at the first time, this provision would be triggered, would be protecting neighborhoods.
Speaker 9: And then the second time, we would know we would be 18 months to two years into an order ordinance. And we would understand better whether or not there are or are not odor impacts from deeply industrial areas that gravitate.
Speaker 9: So if you have a grow facility in a deeply industrial area, your kids aren't walking by it every day to go to school. So they're not seeing it. It's not creating temptation. Or, you know, if there are enforcement issues, they are not right next to a neighborhood, but you could have odor.
Speaker 9: And that was the number one thing I heard from communities and with deeply industrial areas was we are still experiencing odor from these deeply industrial areas, even if we're more than a thousand feet away. And so my reason for supporting this amendment is it gives us time to see if that odor ordinance works or not.
Speaker 9: And then we can basically make a decision about if it is working. Then you have the deeply industrial areas and maybe you go ahead and you can act accordingly to make that deeply industrial area available while you protect and keep protecting with very high standards the residential buffer zone or the edge, if you will.
Speaker 9: So for those reasons, I'm very appreciative of the objectivity of using an objective metric of the ability to give these neighborhoods time to see if the order ordinance is working, and then it does not, as some of the later amendments do.
Speaker 9: You will see this includes the top five neighborhoods, other amendments that you have go as far as to 12 to 18 into that. And they basically do eliminate any new locations. So this allows some potential. We don't know if the cap will have capacity or not.
Speaker 9: But for those reasons, after, you know, really trying my best to try to find common ground and move towards the feedback from folks who would like us to go slower. I will be supporting this amendment tonight and I would encourage all of my colleagues to do so.
Speaker 9: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilwoman Canady, Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Thanks, Mr. President. The neighborhoods that are over, unduly concentrated, actually could have been foretold almost 150 years ago when there were the Denver Pacific and the and the Kansas Pacific laid their tracks. That's where the industrial areas have gone.
Speaker 7: It's not for any other reason than the fact that that's where we allow this activity to occur. So with Councilwoman Gilmore's proposal, I have a couple of issues that I'm trying to determine how I'm going to vote on this, because I don't know if I could favor this until I know what's going to happen down the line
Speaker 7: . And I'll tell you why. The thousand foot buffer zone from residential that we're talking about, I think, places an undue burden on the growth, on the cultivation licenses to find locations where they can go. So especially with the amendment that was going to that's going to be proposed, where we have even more statistical neighborhoods that are not
Speaker 7: included. We're giving no option with Councilwoman Gilmore as we're only leaving five out at a time. So that would leave approximately seven or so statistical neighborhoods. Although, as Councilman Espinosa pointed out, Stapleton, east of Havana and the warehouse district in MONDELLO, still has other some widely open areas.
Speaker 7: So I would like to know. Before. Before I decide whether to vote on this, whether there's an appetite to shorten too narrow that buffer zone to 500 feet rather than a thousand either right now before the lottery or in the future when we do the blind lottery so that applicants actually have a reasonable opportunity to relocate to
Speaker 7: better locations. And that would only apply to cultivation licenses. Not not the sales licenses. Mr. President, I don't know if there's a way to to determine if there's an appetite for that.
Speaker 3: Well, I would suggest, as councilman, for instance, this motion to amend is on the floor. Why not just vote on that? And so if it's voted down, for example, and I we hear that the reason might be because the People Council feels the distance is too great.
Speaker 3: I'll defer to you to do with the motion. With the smaller distance request.
Speaker 7: And maybe other folks could comment on that before they.
Speaker 3: Could or not. If they don't want to. It's certainly their choice. Tin Tin. Thank you. Thank you, Governor Vlad, appreciate that. This message with you. Councilman Brooks, I think you're up next.
Speaker 5: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. President. David, I just have a question about the. The authority that the executive director of Access and License has. So. They will recalibrate the count at the end of each year to figure out the next year of the top five statistical neighborhoods.
Speaker 5: Is that how I understand it.
Speaker 14: The way it's worded, it would be an obligation for the director to do it before conducting an open application process in 2017. Sometime in 2017, the director would have to make a determination if there's capacity under the CAP, the CAPS, to even be conducting an open application process and lottery.
Speaker 14: And if he determines there is capacity, then the next step is going to be to fulfill this chore and find out if we're going to be accepting potential applications for new cultivation. First, I have to identify what the black hole statistical neighborhoods are going to be.
Speaker 14: So so it's kind of a sequential. You have to read this in the context with everything else about how that open application process will work, and that's essentially how it'll shake out step after step.
Speaker 5: Yeah. David, I'm assuming that all of that is, you know, I'm voting for this, assuming that all that is going to happen, right? That there is a black out does not occur and there is room in the market to do an open application.
Speaker 5: But once that happens, there's a recalibration of all the statistical neighborhoods and the director will take the top five statistical neighborhoods. And those could change is basically what I want to just make sure.
Speaker 14: To be very clear, the way the amendment is worded now, it's only mandatory for the first time. And then the director, after doing it once the first time we have an open application process, will report back to council and have a dialog about whether we're going to continue to use this system in the future.
Speaker 14: So it's not written to be self perpetuating forever. It's intended to be tried the one time with a report back to council. And that's that last sentence in there. Okay.
Speaker 5: Given given that explanation, I'm I'm going to support this. What I don't like about this is that it it leaves out one of the most in my mind the way that I would count these of the most saturated neighborhoods, which is Globeville and has the most area for.
Speaker 5: And I'd be for that saturation to continue over concentration, whatever the hell we're using tonight to continue. And so but I'm going to support that because I like that flexibility and I like that we as a council can revisit this.
Speaker 5: And I like that the director of Access and License will come back and have that conversation.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Brooks. Councilman Nu.
Speaker 10: And David. This mineral will still allow all the pending applications to go through. That's great.
Speaker 14: That's correct. This amendment doesn't touch the pending application issue at all. Some of the others who may discuss next. We do get into that, but this only looks forward to the time. We'll have an open application process in the future.
Speaker 10: Where the numbers that were calculated for the undue concentrated areas were there pending applications, including those numbers.
Speaker 14: In terms of the neighborhoods listed earlier. Yes. Yes.
Speaker 10: So so they were all included in there. So.
Speaker 14: But but but again, pending means pending. We don't know which ones are going to ultimately be issued and so forth. So it could change. There could be there could be some movement in some of the locations of some of these licensed premises over the next year or two.
Speaker 14: So so it could change.
Speaker 10: In the fall. So there will be the caps will be in place and the thousand feet will be in place if this goes through. Graham romney's bill. Right.
Speaker 14: Right. This doesn't affect anything else about the caps on the spacing requirements.
Speaker 10: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman new councilman Black.
Speaker 4: Thank you. I'm going to be supporting this. I think it's practical and not emotional. I think some of the other amendments that we're looking at are much more limiting. And an Elizabeth, to your great suggestion about maybe counseling cultivation facilities to move somewhere else.
Speaker 4: The other amendments will be so incredibly restrictive that there will not be any other locations available. This one is more flexible and hopefully will leave more available industrial buildings available for this. So I will be supporting it.
Speaker 3: Thanks. Thank you. Councilwoman Black. Councilman Clark.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. I also want to voice my support for this amendment. There are a lot of amendments that we will be considering that talk to neighborhoods and protections for foreign neighborhoods. I think that this one provides, you know, the most concrete and measurable way to determine that.
Speaker 10: It doesn't determine that until a point at which we reach the need for a lottery, which could be five years, could be ten years away. And and I like that about it. And I have some concerns going through the other amendments, and it's hard to not have them all on the floor at the same time to compare
Speaker 10: with neighborhoods that I represent that are on these other lists that are on there when they're called out by names. And so. So I think that this one has a very clearcut explanation and a very fair way of determining what those are.
Speaker 10: Councilman Espinosa's point earlier, you know, I haven't seen a perfect way to measure that, but I think that this is the closest of anything that's been put in front of us to a really good way to measure where those undue concentrations are and which neighborhoods are most impacted.
Speaker 10: So I'll be supporting this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thank you. All right, Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 8: I wanted to ask Kelly if you have the flash drive that had the neighborhoods. I had asked Zach to provide that so we could put it up on the screen. It would. It shows is side by side the impacted neighborhoods, the top 12.
Speaker 8: And it shows the stores and then it shows the cultivations.
Speaker 3: She does not.
Speaker 6: Councilwoman, was it uploaded in desire? Yeah.
Speaker 8: He was supposed to have done that early today. You got it? Yeah. Okay, so it's on the sire system showing that I thought it would be important for you all to take a look at that so you could see that if we went with this just for senators, it'd be overland.
Speaker 8: Hilarious. One to you. Five points. Northeast Park Hill. And felt very for the cultivation. It would be Illyria Swans here, Overland Northeast Park Hill, Montebello and Val Verde. So all the other neighborhoods, including Globeville, are not included in the top five on either one of these.
Speaker 6: Are you talking about the top 12 cities?
Speaker 8: Yeah. If we're if we're going just with the top five, I wanted people to see what the top five would be. Just looking at these neighborhoods, based on what we have seen in terms of where that concentration has been across the city.
Speaker 6: Council members can click on documents and see a.
Speaker 3: Colleague, council colleagues. You have the opportunity to view that if on your on your computers in front of you council will take any of the comments.
Speaker 8: I just want to say part of my reason for not supporting this is because, first of all, it's it's going to protect five neighborhoods and it leaves everything else completely wide open in those other saturated neighborhoods. And I'll speak to my amendment when we get to it in a few minutes.
Speaker 8: But that did, in fact, leave other opportunities open in in other neighborhoods. And so I think just the fact that it completely takes some neighborhoods off line and doesn't really look at how we protect the other saturated neighborhoods is just concerning.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilwoman Cohen, each year you back up or you don't.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. This is where this evening is going to get interesting and in terms of procedurally having amendments that deal with overlapping issues. I'm going to encourage folks who are thinking that they want a stricter approach to thinking about supporting this amendment now, because you have the risk that the later amendments are not going to
Speaker 9: pass. Should you? So let me just play out a scenario for you. I would suggest you support this amendment now and then when we get to the more stringent or more expansive restrictions, you can also vote yes. And should any of those amendments pass, you could always move to reconsider the vote that was on this amendment to
Speaker 9: remove it. Or obviously we have maybe some drafting reconciliation that may need to be occur. But I would hate to see this amendment fail at this stage of the night and then have folks, you know, also fail on more stringent things that they want to see and have regret that they didn't take the first opportunity they have
Speaker 9: . So obviously, that's a very personal consideration in terms of your predictions and how the future votes are going to go. But it is not inconceivable that we could reconsider if someone feels like, hey, I went through the the least thing I got, the more thing, and now we can go there.
Speaker 9: So, so, so I'm going to ask folks to really think about that as as they vote on this amendment. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Clayton. Yes. Council members, depending on which amendments passed tonight, we will the city attorneys will certainly make sure whatever our final answer is tonight will make sense from an amendment standpoint. So that may require some massaging depending on which amendments pass or fail.
Speaker 3: That is the conversation that I've had with the city attorneys. And thank you, Councilwoman Canady, for bringing that forward. All right. We're still on the First Amendment. Councilman Lopez, comment to your question.
Speaker 2: I do have a question. Mr. BROWN. Well, if we approve this particular amendment and amend to 64 and to 64 fails to pass tonight. Does the amendment still stick or does it has to be reintroduced? Does the bill have to be refiled and reintroduced?
Speaker 2: And then another attempt, another crack at this amendment, even if it even passes?
Speaker 14: Mr. President, you want me to go ahead and talk about the nuclear.
Speaker 3: No. And actually, David. Correct, correct me if I am wrong for this. And I. I had this conversation with Councilwoman Canete during the break. So Councilman Lopez, should. Should we have an amendment added to to this bill and that final answer be up or down votes they voted down in this particular instance.
Speaker 3: Council member has the right to file a bill on the floor. And the question is, would that council member file the bill on the floor with the amendment? I would assume that he or she would. I don't want to speak for that council member, though, Councilman, can you just nodding your head?
Speaker 3: So that's how I imagine that would play out if an amendment is passed by a majority of council members and then the overall bill is defeated, I imagine a refile would include the amendment, but we certainly won't know until that happens.
Speaker 3: But that's that is certainly a possibility. Councilman.
Speaker 2: I no, I just I wanted to ask that question is, do you think.
Speaker 14: That the councilwoman can you want to comment before? I do. I because I wasn't a part of that conversation. There's there's all kinds of scenarios. You guys can have to take it step by step here tonight. But if but if the bill or the bill, as amended, does not garner seven votes for publication, then we'll have a
Speaker 14: conversation at that point about next steps. We do have an extra week, Bill ten. There's a possibility to file bills this week for consideration on the 18th and the 25th. But but we really do need to take the conversation systematically as we go.
Speaker 14: But but there will be options still for four filing of alternatives before the May 1st date that's looming out there.
Speaker 2: Okay. Mr. President, I do have a comment and I haven't ring in for questions or comments until now. I do feel like I you know, I want to give this amendment a shot because it does try to restrict and protect some of these neighborhoods.
Speaker 2: But it's just it's not enough. And we've had folks from Globeville area and Swansea come in here and participate every single hearing, every single step of the process yet. Their neighborhoods out of the picture. And the only way it is in the picture is if they have more licenses.
Speaker 2: And, you know, it's kind of a. It's kind of a juxtaposition there. And, you know, I have a little heartburn about it now. We're asked to approve this and move forward because it may be the only thing we get.
Speaker 2: And that may be the shot because we have one council member missing. And pending approval no matter what. Now, I know that we've based on the questions that we've we've asked in this whole process and the questions that we've asked on this dais and, you know, the participation that we've had in these chambers in our in our
Speaker 2: council meeting room down in 394 or five, any five. I would hope. That whatever happens with this bill that the sponsor and the supporters of this bill also seek to accommodate some of the some of the desires and the concerns that are at this dais and not leave it a split vote in the future.
Speaker 2: I would like to see this particular amendment that we're considering now go a little bit further and not just by random, say, okay, we'll just kind of randomly pick five. Right. And arbitrarily use the number five. Why not six?
Speaker 2: Why not? Seven. We have. Whole bunch of neighborhoods. You minus the 13. There's just 65 neighborhoods in the city. That's a lot to choose from. Right. And so I just hope we have that conversation. I hope we're opening an opportunity to to do some more fine tuning to this bill.
Speaker 2: So, I mean, I do want to support the amendment because, hey, I would like to see one amendment go through. But let's I mean, I just hope that in good faith that we're able to. Take it a little further based on the conversations that we're having tonight and this whole process leading up to tonight.
Speaker 2: And a lot of the folks that couldn't sit in these pews but were standing in the back and had to leave.
Speaker 3: All right. Thank you, Councilman Lopez. Councilman, new comment on the First Amendment.
Speaker 10: I still have issues, I guess, which is frustrating to know, to not have a great opportunity to discuss the issues thoroughly. These amendments, you know, that have come through and over this weekend, you know, I especially concerned about the saturated areas, but the pending applications being approved is something I think we need to see it.
Speaker 10: I really appreciate what Councilwoman Kennish has done and carrying out the pending applications. But as you look at that list, there's a lot of data missing from those pending applications until they exactly where they are and where they're located.
Speaker 10: And there's just a lot of information that's missing. So it's very I don't think I'll be supporting this this amendment and not because Councilman Gilmore didn't do a great job. It's just something that I think that we not addressing all the key issues.
Speaker 10: And I sort of agree with one of the spokespeople that we really need to talk about this a little bit further. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Councilman. There. All right. Any other comments on the First Amendment offered by Councilman Clark? All right, scene one. We're voting on the firsts First Amendment. For people in the audience. Amendments require seven council members to vote in. I.
Speaker 3: Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 6: Clerk I. Espinosa No.
Speaker 0: Flynn, I.
Speaker 6: Cashman All right. Can each I. Lopez All right.
Speaker 10: New no.
Speaker 6: ORTEGA No. SUSSMAN All black. All right. Brooks.
Speaker 5: I.
Speaker 6: Mr. President.
Speaker 3: I. Madam Secretary, please cast your vote in and announce the results. 93 days. 93 days. The First Amendment offered has passed. All right, Councilwoman Ortega. Your motion to amend.
Speaker 8: All right. Let me pull up the one here.
Speaker 5: Tony.
Speaker 8: Okay, Mr. President, I move to amend Council Bill 264 in the following particulars on page four, line 12, add the following definition per in 11, statistical neighborhoods means geographical neighborhood boundaries established by the city and county of Denver in 1970, in conjunction with a community renewal program consisting of combinations of census tracts to which the city has
Speaker 8: assigned geographic place names corresponding to commonly used names of subdivision in historical parts of the city, and page 13 Line 43 strike any and insert except as provided here in any on page 14 after line four, insert the following any application pending on May one, 2016 for Medical Marijuana Center License, a retail marijuana store, a medical marijuana
Speaker 8: optional premise cultivation license or retail marijuana cultivation facility license shall not be approved by the director if the premise proposed for the license is located within any of the following statistical neighborhoods. O'Leary. Valencia. Overland. Northeast Park Hill. Montebello.
Speaker 8: Val Verde. College View. Lincoln Park. Well. Sunny Side Baker at Moore Park. Five Points Globeville in Sun Valley. Any application pending on May one, 2016 for medical marijuana, optional premises, cultivation license or a retail marijuana cultivation facility license shall not be approved by the director if the proposed location would be within 1000 feet of a school or
Speaker 8: residential zone district as prohibited by sections 6 to 14 and 24 or 512. Perrin F Perrin one. In addition, the pending application shall be required to supplement their application with a letter from the Office of the Superintendent of Public Schools indicating whether or not the school district has any plans to approve or establish a school in the
Speaker 8: next ensuring year within 1000 feet of a location proposing proposed for licensee if the school district indicates any such plan. The director shall deny the pending application.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Ortega. It has been moved and seconded. Comments Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 8: So again, part of what this amendment does is it includes the other neighborhoods that are. Saturated or impacted with these facilities. And I don't know if we put the maps up as well, Kelly. But we we had the maps put on this air system so you could look at where those saturated areas are and be able to
Speaker 8: understand why. We have had neighbors coming from certain neighborhoods expressing their concern about the impact that this has had to their community. You know, at one at our last committee meeting, we were we were told that there were only two such complaints.
Speaker 8: I've been to community meetings in these neighborhoods, hearing lots of different issues, complaints, concerns about things that go well beyond just odor. And so looking at how we address relief for particularly the global Elyria, Swansea and neighborhoods that are burdened with so many other issues that it just doesn't make sense to say, well, we only look at
Speaker 8: five neighborhoods and not include other areas of the city that are challenged and burdened with some of the concerns that we've heard reiterated over and over at both our committee meetings and some of the comments that we've heard tonight.
Speaker 8: So I would just urge my colleagues to seriously consider this and allow us to go further than what the last amendment did. This one does deal with pending applications, whereas the last one did not.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilman Clark. Councilman Ortega. Councilman Clark.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. So my problem with this, as I alluded to in the previous one, is, you know, looking through this list, which we are setting in ordinance this list in perpetuity, in ordinance that these are the neighborhoods that we are protecting, we're choosing them.
Speaker 10: And yet Plot Park and Capitol Hill appear on these top 12 lists and do not appear on here. So I am I'm not comfortable with the process that somehow picks winners and losers without without that empirical. The statistical background for it and then with it.
Speaker 10: Then, you know, three years from now, there's another neighborhood that is the most highly impacted. And yet these are the ones that are in ordinance. And so for that reason, I will not be supporting this amendment and have serious reservations.
Speaker 10: I would encourage my colleagues to support it, as well as that is one of the two that are clearly left off just from these two. This is a neighborhood that I represent.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Clark. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Thanks, Mr. President. I wonder if I could ask Councilwoman Ortega if she would consider on the cultivation section reducing 2000 feet to 500 feet. From a residential zone district.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman flynn, david broadwell. I just wanted to chime in before. Go ahead. Craig david.
Speaker 14: I didn't mean to interrupt that question and i want to get right back to it, but an important clarification in terms of what councilman clarke just said. This doesn't codify these neighborhoods for exclusion for all times. This this amendment is only about the pending applications.
Speaker 14: So it doesn't go into the code language itself, as in contrast to some of the drafting I did for Councilman Lopez, which does indeed go into the ordinance name neighborhoods where there can't be any licensing indefinitely into the future.
Speaker 14: This this amendment is very laser focused on the pending applications in terms of where they can't be approved if they haven't been approved by May 1st. Okay. So that's that's important. Has distinguishing this from the others you're going to see later.
Speaker 14: Now, again, I'm sorry to interrupt. We turn to we're turning to a different issue now in terms of whether that's going to be addressed in this proposal.
Speaker 3: Thank you, David. I'm sorry. Go ahead, Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Thank you. And thank you, David. That's a great clarification. As we as we move forward with this council on our take, the reason I asked about the cultivation licenses is that I I'm very troubled by the list of statistical neighborhoods that is on here for cultivation licenses.
Speaker 7: And they are the only statistical neighborhoods that even allow plant husbandry other than Stapleton, which has an industrial area east of Havana Street that goes all the way outside to I-25. And there's a big warehouse district out there that would be the only location under this amendment where a cultivation facility would be able to locate if it's
Speaker 7: pending as of May 1st.
Speaker 8: But that's not entirely true. If I can respond, if you look at the maps, which is why I was trying to get the maps up here so that we have an opportunity for you to see that. I'm sorry.
Speaker 8: I'm trying to find the right on the maps here. The. The boundaries for the residential and the schools still leave boundaries in those industrial areas where facilities can be located on the cultivation site. So we're not entirely closing out the ability for some of those neighborhoods to still be considered.
Speaker 8: What we're doing is focusing that in the industrial areas that are not within a thousand feet of residential.
Speaker 7: I understand that. But with the first paragraph, it absolutely says that any application pending as of May 1st for cultivation, which is what I'm talking about right now, cannot be considered if it's in those neighborhoods. And that's beyond the thousand foot issue.
Speaker 8: But but the second paragraph clarifies that the thousand foot is the right is the distinction the distinguishing factor right.
Speaker 7: That if it were.
Speaker 8: Allowed the opportunity for more of that space to be available.
Speaker 7: Right, if it were allowed in that statistical neighborhood in the first place. But the first paragraph absolutely says it shall not be approved by the director if the application is in within that statistical neighborhood at all. So that's that's the problem I'm having with it.
Speaker 8: Okay. And your request is. If. If I accepted the 500. That change your position on this?
Speaker 7: Not really, because I'm looking at the the draft ordinance that Councilwoman Kennish has, which also has a 1000 foot separation from residential for cultivation facilities that has that that's what has me very concerned. What has me concerned about your amendment is that it rules out all the cultivation licenses that are pending right now at all, because they
Speaker 7: can't go into they can't go into Harvey Park and they can't go into Sunny Chaffey Park or they can't go into Capitol Hill because they don't have warehouses there. So we're giving we're giving no option at all for any of the cultivation facilities that that's my concern.
Speaker 8: Okay. Well, that's.
Speaker 11: Your prerogative.
Speaker 8: To not support it. But, you know, the expectation was to allow facilities that are outside of the residential to still be available.
Speaker 7: Just just to clarify, if I could, there's a program that would apply after new applications come in after May 1st. Correct.
Speaker 8: Correct. This only applies to the demonstrations.
Speaker 7: Right. Okay. Thank you.
Speaker 2: The Council and council and commission.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. David, I think we need you to chime in. The amendment is drafted as an and not in any of these statistical neighborhoods and not appending application. Correct. Councilwoman Ortega's intention, as she's describing it, does not match what's on the page.
Speaker 9: I would just like you to chime in on what is drafted in front of us.
Speaker 14: Right. There's not an end on the draft because this is what I felt I was being directed to draft. So. So Councilman Flynn's analysis is correct is that there's a complete prohibition on granting of the pending applications in any of the named neighborhoods.
Speaker 9: Even in the deeply industrial area.
Speaker 14: I'm sorry.
Speaker 9: Even in a deeply industrial area. In the named neighborhoods?
Speaker 14: That's correct. Okay. Okay. And and if there's for example, the Stapleton example is not on that list of name neighborhoods. The the other restrictions related to setback from residential and schools might knock out something in the Stapleton neighborhood because it's not mentioned in the first paragraph, but it would be knocked out by the second paragraph.
Speaker 9: Thank you. And then, Mr. President, I just want to clarify for colleagues, I just handed out a map that I got late in the day. I do have it on thumb drive if we need to ask the Madam Secretary to put on the screen, but and I'm sorry, it's small, but it is the blue on the map
Speaker 9: that you're looking at is industrial areas. And then you can see the statistical neighborhood outlines here. And so you can see that indeed, Councilman Flynn's analysis is correct that with this amendment, there would be virtually no industrial zoned areas other than the Stapleton statistical neighborhood that would be available.
Speaker 9: So and again, I know the names of the statistical neighborhoods are very tiny, but but what we do I just wanted to share this since I know Councilwoman Ortega was struggling to get the maps that she didn't have access to, but this is the map that shows the overlay.
Speaker 9: So thank you.
Speaker 7: Mr. President. Could I clarify something on that map?
Speaker 3: Should I count.
Speaker 7: The blue area in my district? It's not an industrial zone. It's actually lake marshland. So much so everybody's clear on that. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. All right. We are now up with Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: It sounds like an opportunity for a manmade island, so. Yeah. Councilwoman Kenny Ortega. Sorry, this the clarification, that mean what Councilman Flynn was. What also was giving me pause because there was no and it was absolute in its terms because I do believe that there are parts, particularly in the pending applications again for Montebello in Sun Valley
Speaker 5: , that could be captured well outside of the thousands, that thousand foot area. But the absolute terms of that first paragraph are strictly prohibited in those two areas, as well as the one pending app in Sunnyside that also would fall outside that boundary.
Speaker 5: So those the fact that it's that exclusive was giving me pause on supporting this.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Espinosa. Councilwoman Sussman?
Speaker 4: Yes. Oh, thank you very much. I won't be supporting this particular amendment nor anyone of those that give no options to pending licenses. I, I don't smoke marijuana. I don't eat marijuana. I don't put marijuana in my ears.
Speaker 4: I don't do anything with marijuana. And I have no connections with any marijuana businesses at all. But I am vehemently in favor of allowing spendings to go through in some manner. Would. I don't know. Whenever we have never that we have not grandfathered people in circumstances like this.
Speaker 4: I can't remember, certainly not in my tenure that we didn't grandfathered people when we were making major changes in the law and people who followed that law faithfully. I just think that if we prevent the pending going forward, we are acting in bad faith and.
Speaker 4: I would be personally embarrassed. To do such a thing. So this is the first of some of those amendments that are going to prevent. In total some spendings to not go through. I continue to be amazed at the sort of midst last century mid-century opinions of marijuana that we still hold on to that were part of a
Speaker 4: hysteria against drugs, particularly drugs used by lower income people. And and they made these laws that were extraordinarily damaging to minority communities then. And, of course, applied in this extremely discriminatory discriminatory enforcement. On people of color. And one of the biggest shames of our justice system.
Speaker 4: It is that discrimination that destroyed these communities. And it's just ironic to me that we have the problems of the communities that are of color, who are who are worried about them, the legalization of it. When the when the illegal possession of it was so harmful.
Speaker 4: And it was the number one reason why Denver rights voted to legalize it by 67% was the injustice of its enforcement. And sometimes I feel like the 33% are trying to take that back. And I think we owe it to understand in our communities that we wanted to legalize this.
Speaker 4: But if but it's got to be somewhere in order for it to be legal. And of course, we have more in Denver than we do anywhere else in the state, because we have more people in Denver and more businesses.
Speaker 4: We have more coffee shops here, more liquor stores, more everything here. And we have them in. Communities. That we have also ignored in our in our history. And maybe it's our ignoring those communities, which is the cause of having this kind of saturation.
Speaker 4: But we ought to pay attention to the the ignoring of these communities. This is just sort of an effect. So I, I did my marijuana thesis. I did my thesis, master's thesis on marijuana in 1971. If you can imagine.
Speaker 4: So I know a little bit about this and particularly the sociological aspects of it. So I haven't said very much tonight and I'm probably not going to say much more, but any amendments that prohibit any pending from going forward, I just will never be able to support.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Sussman. Before I go to Councilman Lopez and Ortega, I would hope that council colleagues were kind of going off into the final question, which I think people will comment on once we get to a bill as amended.
Speaker 3: I would hope that up until that point, we can just focus solely on these specific amendments. Otherwise, we will break the record for the longest council meeting ever. So if it's possible, colleagues, if we could just focus solely on these amendments, I think about the people who are sitting in these pews watching who would really like to
Speaker 3: get an answer sometime today. I just really hope we can take that into consideration as we continue to give our comments. Councilman Lopez, you're up.
Speaker 2: Thank you. And as far as the longest council meeting ever, that was Garcia's thing. I think that went to like three or four in the morning. You know, top of that. Thank you, Mr. President. I I'll I'm addressing my my comments for the need for an amendment.
Speaker 2: And as much as I absolutely love and respect my colleague, Councilwoman Sussman, it's easy for her to say, because there are very little spaces in her district where a dispensary or a grove facility can go. And it's easy for folks to say that, well, maybe we can attribute this to communities of color being ignored.
Speaker 2: Well, you have a whole bunch of them that came throughout this process and have said we need some kind of level of protection for Globeville, for Elyria, for swans here, for Val Verde, for a lot of these neighborhoods of color.
Speaker 2: And they're being ignored. Right. And here's the other thing. You're shaking your head. Are you a person of color? Do I see very many owners of these dispensaries of color? Do you live in Globeville, Elyria and Swansea? If you do, please stand up.
Speaker 2: I'd love for. I love for an owner to say, you know what? I live in the neighborhood I serve. I don't get to go to a grocery store. Like they don't get a go. That's good. We have one right on that, too, right, hon?
Speaker 2: Right on. So here's here is my point. Here is my point. For those of you who come up to this dias and say, how dare you attack our business? How dare you attack our industry?
Speaker 0: Tell me another city in this.
Speaker 2: State that you can go in there, Dias.
Speaker 0: And say, please accept my application. You're welcome.
Speaker 2: Turning away for your welcome. This city. From the get go. From the get go. Whether it was decriminalization. We were supportive of it. That meant less youth of color in our jails. Right. You should all be clapping for that one.
Speaker 2: Amendment 20 medical marijuana. Denver was at the forefront and I respect the folks. User. User from Chicago. I think you went to northern. I respect the heck out of you. I respect the folks that actually look at this as a medicine.
Speaker 2: As something that can be used to develop. That's why I'm not against MIPS. That's why I'm not against laboratories. Recreational. When it was time for us to implement Amendment 64, regulate it like alcohol, we were on the forefront.
Speaker 2: I was there. My amendments actually pushed that. And when I said we wanted to separate it 1000 feet away from each other, when I first said we're going to have an undue proliferation, everybody shook their heads. No, we're not.
Speaker 2: No, we're not. No, we're not. And you know what? You blasted it when I said we need a 2500 foot distance, so we have a fair shot for everybody. And you know what? I had to reduce it down to 2000, wasn't good enough, took it down to 1500, and now we're at 1000.
Speaker 2: And by the way, for the folks in the community who say we have no other choice. Yes, you do. It's 2016, folks. These applications, although they're pending. There is no guarantee of their approval. There's still a needs and desires hearing for those folks that want open centers.
Speaker 2: So, yes, communities, you do have a voice and you do have power. But I forgive me for being. So what's the word emotional about it? But I am. Because I grew up in this city. I live in this neighborhood.
Speaker 2: My mom taught at Swansea Elementary School.
Speaker 0: Every single day those folks wake up.
Speaker 2: To the smell. Not of flowers, not of bread baking, not of the coffee shop on the corner of dogfood and weed. There are communities that have no it has nothing to do with you all as business owners. Nothing to do with it.
Speaker 2: What it has to do with is their communities and what they want to see in your communities and their communities. Greenwood Village is a bunch of grocery stores. There are areas all over Denver. Across the train tracks. They have grocery stores galore and dispensaries.
Speaker 2: And it's a happy little world. But for folks all around this city and primarily in areas like globe, Elyria, Swansea are involved in Sun Valley. There's not a grocery store within walking distance. But there are a bunch of dispensaries.
Speaker 2: Oh, by the way, a whole bunch of liquor stores. And if you want to open something that's available to. Picture what we want our city to become. And if we want to really level that playing field councilwoman. Now we have to look at this from a 35,000 foot view.
Speaker 2: If we really want to talk about equality. Absolutely. I applaud those folks. There's a woman there sitting right next to you, the one that owns three dispensaries in my district. That said, I employ a living wage. You said this to Amanda.
Speaker 2: Living wage. You have folks of color. Great. Well, we got a lot of progress to do with the ownership. We got a lot of progress to do with folks who were in this city, wanted to do business and called this city home as well to.
Speaker 2: And Denver should not be the only place that regulates marijuana. We can't be. We all should be clapping. Lakewood. Adams County, Jefferson County. These are all cities that thumb their noses. You can't even have a hearing in their chambers.
Speaker 2: That's all these amendments are speaking as a reason why we're putting these amendments forward. Now, whether this bill passes or not. I think there needs to be a discussion whether it's maybe it's not statistical neighborhood, maybe it's none of these amendments that are going to work.
Speaker 2: But we have to address this. We absolutely have to address this. I've seen this from beginning to end. I'm the only sitting council member that has seen it from beginning to now. And I implore you to consider it.
Speaker 2: Not once did we have a speaker that was for the industry. This is what we did with the community. This is what we're doing to reduce this. This how we're working with global learning in Swansea. Nobody said a thing.
Speaker 2: We are being we've been we've been leaving. And I'm like, please, please don't play. I'm not doing this for applause, please. We've been leaving little tidbits here in there of how to do this, and nobody has picked up on it.
Speaker 2: Okay. So let's please. Let's give this some respectful consideration. Thank you, Mr. President. I and I intend to supporting this amendment because I think we if this isn't the answer, we still got to be pushing for it.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Lopez. And I'm going to continue to advocate that we vote. So let's eventually get to this point. Colleagues, thank you for your comments. We can continue to go down, but I hope at some point we will vote on this amendment, the other five, and then the bill as amended.
Speaker 3: So please, let's continue to drag along. Councilman Ortega, you're up, man.
Speaker 4: Um, well.
Speaker 8: The only thing I wanted to add is that when we started this conversation and only half of this body was here when we started dealing with the retail recreational marijuana, we had 210. We now have 1000, almost 1030 licenses that will be that will exist in this city.
Speaker 8: I'm sorry. It's 1301, to be exact. So when you talk about the the the fact that we have moved so fast and furious in a short period of time, as I said in committee, this city has been very generous.
Speaker 8: There is no other city in the world that has as many licenses we do, not even Amsterdam. So when you look at the fact that, you know, we're trying to look at some balance between having neighborhoods that have some quality of life and.
Speaker 8: Allowing the industry to exist. You know, I supported this as we move forward and we had the the recreational retail framework that was put together by half of us that were here. And. The fact that some of us thought we were only tying the.
Speaker 8: Recreational to the medical. But somehow we went from five. We're now at 561 existing licenses. On the growth side, with 132 pending and a majority of those are on the medical side where we have a declining number of cardholders.
Speaker 8: On the store side, we have 346 existing with 34 pending. And then on the maps, we have 134 with 62 pending. So you can't tell me that we haven't already done more than any city in this state is done or in this country in trying to be generous and work with this industry.
Speaker 8: And I get that many of you have been through a process, but when you look at how many of these are already in existing operating locations, only 62 of them are for new locations. So I question, you know, the investment, the information we just got tonight doesn't give complete information on, you know, exactly where people are at
Speaker 8: in the process. But, you know, I had argued maybe we should only deal with the 62 new locations and forego the rest of them because those are already existing operating businesses. But, you know, I think addressing the issue of licenses is an important one.
Speaker 8: And so I would just respectfully ask that my colleagues give this serious consideration.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilman Brooks.
Speaker 5: Yeah, very quick question, right to the point on this bill. Councilman Ortega, are you willing to adjust this bill at all to the considerations that. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 8: Yeah, I would be. Okay. And that would take you down to 500 feet instead of a thousand. Is that what you're asking?
Speaker 5: Yes. But it's also asking the question around what David Brown? Well, it seems like there was some miscommunication of what he intended. The and that's in the provision and what you intended. I guess my biggest question is if there are pending licenses that are not within that buffer zone, that they would not be touched.
Speaker 5: You know what I mean? And so I just want to make sure that we can address that, because it seems like there'll be another kind of supporter there, if we could.
Speaker 8: So I want to be clear on what you're asking in terms of the buffer that you just referred to. Yeah.
Speaker 5: So, Councilman Flynn, are you are you asking about the and provision? Are you asking about the 500 to 1000 provision? Which one?
Speaker 7: Thank you. I'm sorry.
Speaker 5: But that was President.
Speaker 7: Councilman Brooks. I had a side discussion here with Councilwoman Ortega earlier, and the and I'm talking about the end. In order for the 500 foot buffer reduction of two 500 feet to mean anything. Then the first paragraph of the amendment would have to be stricken for cultivation licenses.
Speaker 5: And that could get you supportive of this.
Speaker 7: I'm not sure it accommodated her because it also it also if we only remove cultivation licenses for the for the pending, it still leaves in all the retail and medical spendings that would be thrown out.
Speaker 5: Okay. So never mind.
Speaker 3: All right. Any other comments on the First Amendment by Councilwoman Ortega? Seen none. Madam Secretary, Councilwoman Kenny, each last minute chimed in. Ah, nope. She backed out. You could pull them back. All right. Thank you. All right, Council.
Speaker 3: We are no more comments on second first amendment by Councilman Ortega. Madam Secretary, welcome.
Speaker 6: Ortega I Susman No. Black, no. Brooks Clark.
Speaker 10: No.
Speaker 5: Espinosa Bass.
Speaker 6: Flynn.
Speaker 10: No.
Speaker 0: Cashman, no.
Speaker 6: Carnage. Lopez. I knew Espinosa. I. Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Now. Correction, I. Madam Secretary, please quote the voting and announce the results.
Speaker 6: 66 nays.
Speaker 3: Six I6 nay. The motion has failed. Councilman Ortega. You have your second. There you have your Second Amendment you wish to offer me.
Speaker 8: Read this. Mr. President, I move to amend Council Bill 16 to 64 in the following particulars on page one, line 11 through 12, amend the title by striking the words number of license locations where marijuana cultivation and sales may be permitted in the city, and inserting a number of new licenses for marijuana sales, marijuana cultivation and marijuana
Speaker 8: products manufacturing that may be issued in the city, a line 13 after the word licenses insert in both retail and medical marijuana products. Manufacturing licenses. On page two, strike line 23 through 37 and insert the following. Number two Cap on marijuana cultivation licenses a maximum 275 medical marijuana optional premises cultivation licenses or retail marijuana cultivation facility licenses
Speaker 8: on page three, strike line one through 13, and insert the following three. Cap on marijuana sales licenses, meaning a maximum of 250 medical marijuana center licenses. Retail marijuana store licenses. On page three line 14, insert a new subsection four in re number succeeding subsections accordingly.
Speaker 8: Number four cap on marijuana manufacturing licenses, meaning a maximum of 150 medical manufactured, medical marijuana infused product licenses or retail marijuana product manufacturing facility licenses. On page five, strike line 37 to 39 and substitute following marijuana cultivation licenses, the cap on marijuana sales licenses and the cap on marijuana manufacturing licenses.
Speaker 8: With these caps to be administered and enforced by the director in accordance with this section, strike lines 41 through 46 and remember each succeeding subsection accordingly a line 49 strike end and substitute a comma on page six. Line one after comma insert medical marijuana infused product license or retail marijuana product manufacturing facility license align to strike license
Speaker 8: locations and insert licenses straight lines three through five and insert the following licenses the cap on marijuana cultivation licenses and the cap on marijuana manufacturing licenses, respectively, allowed six strike sales locations, strike lines nine through 20 and remember succeeding subsections accordingly on page seven, line 11, strike end and substitute a comma after the second licenses insert and
Speaker 8: marijuana products manufacturing license to the extent capacity for new licenses exists under any of the respective caps. On page eight Line 44, insert a new Section five of the Council bill and renumbered succeeding subsections according to Section five that the introductory sentence of Section six, Dash 213, Denver Room II Revised Municipal Code shall be amended by adding
Speaker 8: the language under underline to read Section 6-2 13 Licensing Requirements Retail Marijuana Products Manufacturer Effective May one, 2016. The director shall not receive or act upon any application for retail marijuana product manufacturer license except through the annual open application process set forth in section six.
Speaker 8: 203 In addition to the requirements set forth in the Colorado Retail Marijuana Code, any rules or regulations adopted pursuant there to the following recommendations shall apply to the issuance of any local license a retail marijuana product manufacturer on page 12.
Speaker 8: On page 12 Line eight, insert a new section of the Council bill and renumbered succeeding section according section. There is no number here. That Section 20 4-509 Licensing Requirement Medical Marijuana Infused Product Manufacturing License Effective May one, 2016.
Speaker 8: The director shall not receive or act upon any application for medical marijuana infused products manufacturer licensing, except through the annual open application process set forth in Section 6-203. In addition to the requirements set forth in the CMC, the following requirements shall apply to the issuance of any local license for medical marijuana infused products and manufacturing.
Speaker 8: And if I could just explain what this does. As I indicated earlier, this would create a council.
Speaker 3: And let me first just move your motion of the first and second, and then I'll come to you directly for comments. Okay. All right. So that was second motion to amend that has been moved and seconded. Comments. Councilman Ortega, go right ahead.
Speaker 8: So what this does is it creates a cap over time. By each category. So that. Over time that we would essentially ratchet down over a period of time so that we have caps on the different categories. And we don't, you know, unless there's something that opens up and we have the lottery process that's spelled out in Councilwoman
Speaker 8: , can you just fill. We basically have a ratcheted down number based on the numbers that I read earlier.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Ortega. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. I strongly support this. One of the problems I have with the bill as it is originally drafted is that it's such a cap. All caps are arbitrary, by the way, but the cap in the original bill that we're looking at unamended leaves us with a cap that is everything that exists now and everything
Speaker 7: that gets approved, that's still pending and that's just as arbitrary. I. Denver really is, as the gentleman said, the Silicon Valley. But we're actually we're the center of it because around and if you bear with me, just take a second.
Speaker 7: The cities in the metro area that prohibit what we're doing here tonight. Arvada, Brighton. Broomfield, Castlerock, Centennial. Cherry Hills Village. Columbine Valley. Englewood. Erie Federal Heights. Firestone. Frederick Golden. Greenwood Village. Lakewood Littleton. Longmont Lone Tree Mawson. Parker, Sheridan, Superior, Thornton and Westminster.
Speaker 7: If you look at the maps that are online of where to buy your marijuana, all of the most of the pinpoints are right in the center of Denver. So to be getting emails for the last two weeks about how we're assaulting the industry and we're stifling the industry, I think the exact opposite is true.
Speaker 7: This is about the only place in the metro area that you have this kind of that you have this kind of access to the market. And by the way, this is not a free market. The folks who testified up here that we're overregulating and it's a free market, the people who wrote Amendment 64 said it's not a
Speaker 7: free market. We're doing the job that they told us to do. I wholeheartedly support setting a cap that is lower than what we will end up with by simply letting the paintings go through. We will have a number of like we will be over the cap for some period of time, but over time it would ratchet down
Speaker 7: . Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Flynn. Perhaps someone can.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to again reconcile between the framing of the amendment and the language. Mr. RUDD Well, I'm reading the back page of the amendment. I don't see where it ratchets down. What I read is it includes the total number of existing licenses plus the pending.
Speaker 9: I don't see that there is a ratchet down. It's basically status quo, what's what's what's existing, plus what's pending. So Councilman Flynn is has based his vote on the idea that it ratchets down through attrition, but nothing in this language does that.
Speaker 9: So I want to just clarify what it what it does and what it does not do.
Speaker 14: Well, I think I I'd stated a somewhat different way. There's a big ratchet down implicit in the amendment, but it's essentially a one time thing. It's a it's the idea that there's a number of maximum licenses. We're no longer talking locations here.
Speaker 14: We're talking licenses. That's a stated number that would be codified in the law and which would tell the director, you can't conduct an open application process or a lottery until sometime in the future when the number of licenses in Denver go below that number.
Speaker 14: And the numbers that are proposed are substantially lower than the number of licenses in the city today that that this really puts off until some some distant future when the number would go below that in terms of licenses that we would be accepting new licenses under the open application process.
Speaker 14: That's what this move if there was.
Speaker 9: Slightly to that language, please, where the number is lower. I've heard this in the description, but I am looking at the text of the amendment and I do not see where it changes the number. So if you can just point me to the line.
Speaker 14: I hope I've got the right copy. The middle of the first page 275.
Speaker 9: Oh, we don't have that number.
Speaker 14: Okay, maybe I'm looking at the wrong version. Sorry.
Speaker 9: Okay. I must have an old version. Mine does not have a 275, so. I mean, look.
Speaker 5: Where is this?
Speaker 9: What color? We.
Speaker 8: We passed out the.
Speaker 5: That's the way.
Speaker 8: It should be. I'm sorry I wasn't reading from the colored one. Oh, we passed out the one that was written on.
Speaker 5: The white.
Speaker 10: Flight.
Speaker 9: Okay, so I just want to clarify. We skipped over Amendment two and went to Amendment three then. Is that what occurred?
Speaker 8: It is correct.
Speaker 4: That.
Speaker 9: Okay, that helps quite a bit. Thank you. I was an amendment.
Speaker 3: Yeah. Councilman Ortega chose to. Were you still going to do for Councilman Ortega or did you or.
Speaker 8: I do plan to do for.
Speaker 3: Okay. All right. So, Councilwoman Kinney, any other questions? Tracking. Now I make sure I got councilman carnitas questions answered.
Speaker 9: Can someone just confirm I'm on the right color?
Speaker 3: It is the. I'm looking at white. It is the White House.
Speaker 9: Okay. There's no.
Speaker 3: Okay. All right. This is our Second Amendment. Any other comments? On Councilwoman Ortega's Second Amendment. Councilman Kim H. I thought you might have something I wanted to give you a minute.
Speaker 9: To thank you and your.
Speaker 3: Parents.
Speaker 9: I'm juggling a lot of paper up here, and I think I must have had an earlier version of the amendment. So I want to just point out one of the significant differences that this amendment will create, as opposed to the bill as drafted, which is not just that there is, you know, a ratchet down in the numbers
Speaker 9: , but there will actually be no city controlled new entrants. So we at this point, we would have a secondary market where existing business owners could sell licenses to others, but there would be no ability for the city to set a higher standard.
Speaker 9: So, for example, right now in this pending in this drafted bill, the lottery pro qualifications include the fact that no one has had any any violations of a safety related matter in the prior year. No one's had any revocations at another location.
Speaker 9: And that applies to all of the owners that are involved. None of those criteria would then apply because this new law is for individual businesses to choose who they want to sell to. The city has certain veto powers.
Speaker 9: For example, if you had it didn't pass the criminal background check, for example, but you would be literally giving the existing industry exclusive control over who the new entrants are. So that isn't perhaps an unintended consequence, but it is indeed a consequence of this dial down.
Speaker 9: And this was earlier in this process, a persuasive issue for some people who felt like it was important that the city be the one to be controlling new entrants to the market. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Kenny. Councilman Flynn's okay if I hop over you for councilman new councilman new. You're up.
Speaker 10: Just a question on the deputy's license numbers. Is that about 50% of what the current license figure is? Is there some is there some percentage of your work?
Speaker 8: That is that is correct, except on the maps, it's actually higher than more than what it is. With the total number, including the pending that would that would go through. But certainly on the on the grows and on the stores, it would be about half.
Speaker 10: Okay. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman new Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Thank you. Just for a clarification on the secondary market issue, Mr. Broadwell, maybe you could help me out here or maybe Stacy. But when a when an operator when a licensee wants to sell the business to another to a buyer.
Speaker 7: They can't just give them the license. We have to approve that. So it's not the case that you're selling our license. You're selling your business. And yes, it may be more valuable because we're limiting the number of businesses.
Speaker 7: But you're not selling a license and we can subject the transfer to the exact same standards. Simply by adopting that. If we don't have them already, I'm shocked. I'd be shocked that we don't have the same level of scrutiny for a license transfer as we do for anyone else applying for a license.
Speaker 7: Could you help me on that?
Speaker 10: Mr. Bravo.
Speaker 14: Yes. Just briefly on that, the neither the main bell tonight or any of the amendments change up the basic rules for transfer of ownership of a license and transfer of ownership of marijuana licenses very similar to liquor licenses is a fairly simple process now under current law that basically you don't do new needs and desires or anything
Speaker 14: like that. It's just doing the criminal background and character check on the new owners. Right. It's essentially a look at the character of the new owners. But as of right now, the kind of what what you look at, what the disqualifier as might be, are entirely set forth in state law.
Speaker 14: The city has never adopted any unique or additional filters or criteria for the background check for the new owners. It's not something we've ever regulated in detail. There was going to be there's there's some additional requirements set forth in the in the annual open application process and the underlying bill for new licensing.
Speaker 14: But for transfer of ownership, it's pretty minimalist in terms of what the standards are under state law that we follow currently.
Speaker 3: You're a good councilman for good. Councilman Kenny Tribeca.
Speaker 9: Thank you. Yes. As I caught up with my reading, I began to apologize for being on the wrong amendment. Two other consequences I want to make sure folks understand. We had had an extensive conversation in committee about the importance of allowing conversion or additions to retail.
Speaker 9: This would not allow it. The cap on marijuana sales licenses at 250 would prevent existing medical facilities from adding retail to the extent that they would exceed the cap. So there would be no we would remember we've talked about freezing the world in medical.
Speaker 9: This bill would do that because it applies the cap to both medical and retail in combination. The second piece that this amendment does that, again, we had talked about in committee, we had no testimony about impacts to communities from MIPS.
Speaker 9: MIPS tend to be thousand feet type facilities, which is like, you know, think about your house square footage probably, you know, if you live in a in a single family home or a duplex, your house is perhaps more than a thousand feet of of space.
Speaker 9: These are small commercial kitchens, laboratories that do extractions. They do not have customers coming and going from them like stores do. And they do not have growth of marijuana. They're not cultivators unless they have a cultivation license. And that's a different matter.
Speaker 9: But this would limit the manufacturers as well, which as we discussed in committee, there was not a strong interest in that obviously could have changed. But I just want to make sure folks understand that with this bill, you are capping manufacturers along with the other two categories we've mostly been discussing.
Speaker 9: And you also are prohibiting addition or conversion to retail because it would exceed the cap. So just making sure folks understand that. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Canete. All right. We've got Councilman Black.
Speaker 4: Thank you. I have a question. So this is based on capping licenses. And the premise of Councilwoman Finishes, Bill is locations which I thought we were all in agreement about. And so I'm wondering if this passes, will it replace.
Speaker 4: What's in Councilwoman Pernicious Bill regarding licenses over locations.
Speaker 8: Do you want me to address that or she's looking at you, David.
Speaker 3: But I think. Dave I think she was looking at you. Okay.
Speaker 14: I will defer to the proponent of the amendment, but but this is germane to if you go back to the top of this amendment, you'll see this is the only one that actually amends the title of the bill because it fundamentally does change the thrust of the bill, that the conversation that the bill itself is focused on
Speaker 14: capping locations based upon the status quo, essentially. But this does by changing the focus to number of licenses instead of number of locations, it actually necessitated a change to the bill title, right, in addition to a number of the details in the body of the bill itself.
Speaker 14: But but it does, you know, undoubtedly kind of change it from one paradigm to another. And that's why it required a couple of pages worth of worth of amendments to do that. But it's still a the bill, right?
Speaker 14: Still has the open application process somewhere down the line for new licensing. If we ever go below these numbers, some of the fundamentals of the original bill are still in place. But it is really a shift from the location idea to a license idea and a license number that is a much lower than current status quo number
Speaker 8: . And if I could just continue. So. Effective May 2016, the director wouldn't accept new applications, but with all of the current, existing and pending. It would start from that number. And so after all of these licenses that do allow the the co-location are approved, then it would set a different number as as the cap for each of
Speaker 8: the categories.
Speaker 4: All right. Well, thank you. I won't be supporting it because I fully support our original premise, which was to. Look at the locations and not the licenses. I also don't think we should restrict maps for exactly the same reason that Councilwoman CORNISH mentioned.
Speaker 4: I won't repeat them. So. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Black. Next, councilman to take you.
Speaker 8: I'll pass a lot. My colleague speaks that. I just.
Speaker 3: Okay. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Thank you, sir. I just wanted to clarify that for Councilwoman CORNISH, that the this amendment applies only going forward, that it doesn't affect the pending application. So any conversions that are already in the works would go would go forward if the applications are in.
Speaker 7: I'm. Hmm. No. We would end up with the number that we end up with. But you couldn't have any new applications until we get below the cap.
Speaker 3: Okay. Thank you. Councilman Flynn, any other comments on the Second Amendment? So. So, David, I just want to ask if you could just one more time, since there was a lot of confusion going back and forth. And if you could just succinctly say what this amendment is, again, I want to make sure I don't see any other
Speaker 3: comments or about the vote, but I want to make sure everyone's clear about what this particular amendment is. And there was a little bit of confusion. So if David, if you could just one more time, just some me some summarize.
Speaker 14: Okay. So so the the base bill coming in to tonight cap the total number of locations in the city pretty much based on status quo, existing plus pending. Right. And it was very focused on physical locations, as we've all learned.
Speaker 14: Many locations have multiple, multiple license layered on to the same location. But that was the thrust of the bill. This changes the focus to number of licenses in Denver, Colorado, and basically says that it's that unless we go below a certain number as specified in the amendment, we will not be accepting new applications for licenses, whether they're
Speaker 14: co-located with existing in the future or whether they're going to be a unique location. We just won't be accepting them until total number of licenses in Denver go below the number. The other significant thing I'll emphasize again that others have noted is that this is the only amendment which also gets into the realm of manufacturers.
Speaker 14: Okay. Everything else you're talking about tonight is stores, sales and cultivation. But this one gets into capping the manufacturing licenses as well. And that's another unique aspect of this, which takes the bill into a different realm.
Speaker 3: Thank you. And this has no impact on the previous amendment that was passed earlier in regards to the lottery. Correct.
Speaker 14: And any impact on what.
Speaker 3: The previous amendment that was passed in regards to a lottery.
Speaker 14: No, this was still leave provisions in the bill or regarding a lottery at some point in the future. The amendment you passed earlier talks about blacking out some statistical neighborhoods that would still be in play whenever that would occur in the future.
Speaker 14: But this would basically make that future a long time further away in terms of when we would probably be going below those numbers.
Speaker 3: Thank you, David, for that clarification. Any other comments on the Second Amendment from Councilwoman Ortega? See nine. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 6: Ortega Susman.
Speaker 4: No. Black? No.
Speaker 6: Brooks, clerk. No. Espinosa, no. Flynn.
Speaker 0: I. Cashman now.
Speaker 6: Can each know Lopez?
Speaker 2: Pass.
Speaker 6: New?
Speaker 10: No.
Speaker 6: Lopez.
Speaker 10: No.
Speaker 6: Mr. President.
Speaker 3: No. Madam Secretary, please, first of all, announce the results. 369389a second. The amendment fails. Councilman Ortega, do you have a you have a Third Amendment you'd like to offer?
Speaker 4: I do.
Speaker 8: Amendment four is the gold sheet, and this is. Mr. President, I move to amend Council Bill 16 to 64 in the following particulars on page 13, line 42, add section 12 to the Council Bill and Marine number of succeeding sections.
Speaker 8: According to Section 12, the Section 12 Dash 96 for B DRC shall be amended by adding the language underlined to read as follows. Section 12 Deaths 96 Dash Notification. The following agencies of the city shall be responsible for the following notification.
Speaker 8: Proposed Action Application for any type of new business license under the Denver Medical Marijuana Code or the Denver Retail Marijuana Code in any location in the I8 or I.B. Industrial Zone District, as defined by the Denver Zoning Code, or any proposal to change the location of the existing marijuana business license to a new location in such zone
Speaker 8: districts and the responsible city agency would be excise and license.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilwoman Ortega has been moved and seconded. Comments. Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 8: So basically what this does is it ensures that communities who are adjacent to the I and Ibe zone districts who currently are not receiving any notification would be entitled to that. Any of the IMX zones do provide notification to the adjacent neighborhoods.
Speaker 8: They just don't. For the IEEE and the IB and we have heard repeated testimony from the community asking for this notification. So that's what this would do.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilwoman, can each.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. I seconded this motion. It's my intention to support it. I believe this allows an opportunity for communities who've been asking for notice to be able to have an opportunity to reach out to the businesses and create a dialog.
Speaker 9: The council member can be a part of that or not. But it creates an opportunity for communication where there hasn't been enough. Clearly, we would not be as as Nancy mentioned, we would not be in this boat if we had had more communication from these businesses to these communities.
Speaker 9: And this creates that opportunity. So in an effort, as Councilman Lopez requested, to try to find ways to find common ground, this is a good one and I'm happy to support it. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Canete.
Speaker 10: Councilman Brooks.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. David, let me ask you a quick question around this. On the similar bill that we are not a similar bill, but we passed this omnibus bill earlier this year. If we did the notification and in the omnibus bill, we talked about getting a number of signatures.
Speaker 5: And Stacy LAX can answer this question as well. A number of signatures for a hearing. Does this coincide with that? Can you have a hearing for an I believe even those for you, sir, I. Even if you had a number of signatures.
Speaker 14: Well, I'll invite others to talk about that. That particular provision of the omnibus who worked on that more directly. This is purely a one way street. It's just a notification requirement that excise and licenses has to provide to the R and O's when there's any kind of marijuana business licensing in these in these industrial districts.
Speaker 14: It doesn't talk about hearings. It doesn't talk about petition processes. It's just notices that have to go out to the RINOs more. More broadly, there are some existing notification requirements they have to do now. Yeah, that's already in the same ordinance.
Speaker 14: But this makes it broader. I'm in the I want and I.
Speaker 5: And David, I'm clear on that. What I'm not clear on is will this connect to the greater omnibus bill that talked about existing notification? Was that all only for IMX Stacy? It's about time you come to the mic tonight.
Speaker 4: Thanks. Councilmember Stacy Lux, that executive director of the Denver Department of Excise and Licenses. This does not connect to the omnibus bill that was specifically for the iMac.
Speaker 9: Zone districts to provide that notification requirement, a public hearing requirement. This would be entirely.
Speaker 4: Separate for a night.
Speaker 9: B zone districts, not for IMAX.
Speaker 5: Okay. Thank you. Given that, you know, I will be supporting this, I think it is important to underscore and underline that this gives kind of a false hope in representation, that there could be a public hearing and needs and desires hearing for for this.
Speaker 5: I want to remind folks in the public that I be is for use by. Right. There's several other breweries and things like that are in this is very difficult and I know a lot of folks in the community asked me to look at this.
Speaker 5: We looked at it. So it's a it's a tough deal, but I just I'm going to support it with the understanding that I think what councilman can each say it was right on that this helps in that community process.
Speaker 5: It's amazing to me, you know, at these are my comments for the the larger bill, Mr. President. But I'll just say this is amazing to me that there's so much so many people in the industry upset. But I heard very little, very little on community outreach.
Speaker 5: And I just want to tell you, community outreach, reaching out to neighborhood residents, giving me a phone call in the community does not take much effort. And so this would require that and, you know, I'm going to support this, but I'll say my comments the larger bill.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Hey, thank you, Councilman Brooks. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 10: Thanks, Mr. President.
Speaker 7: I'd like a little clarification maybe from Councilwoman Ortega or from Mr. Broadwell. Section 1296 of the R.A. Ordinance says in paragraph A that we notify registered neighborhood organizations when something happens within their boundaries or within 200 feet. And but then I see in the proposed action, it says it doesn't have any distance.
Speaker 7: It says any location in in a fire or I.B. zone. So does that need to be reconciled with the fact that it follows a paragraph that says within 200 feet because some of these will be, as we know, they got to be more than a thousand feet from the neighborhood so they won't be within the 200 feet
Speaker 7: . And that's one thing. And then the second question is, Councilman Ortega, what R.A. would be notified if, for example, that A or I.B. zone is not in is not covered by an R.A.? Are you talking about any surrounding that zone or.
Speaker 4: Yeah, so maybe.
Speaker 7: That and maybe that has.
Speaker 0: Clarified.
Speaker 8: Geographical boundaries. So they would have to be within the geographical boundaries. But there are some are in those that cover the whole city, so they automatically be notified.
Speaker 7: But, you know, as we know, if you send an email to agency about something that's happening in my neighborhood, no one in my neighborhood ever hears about it. So I'm most concerned about getting this notification to the R and O's that border, but may not cover that industrial zone.
Speaker 7: So will this do I'm I just wonder, will this do that?
Speaker 8: David, I would appreciate your interpretation, but it's my understanding that the R.A. who covers the geographical boundary where the application is proposed, would be notified if they're outside of the boundary. They wouldn't be notified. David, do you have something more?
Speaker 14: If you could come back to me, you're quoting it in context with the rest of the section councilman. Is that right? And I don't have that in front of me right now in terms of reading this language, in the context of the proximity language.
Speaker 14: So I think if it can wait a second and I can do that.
Speaker 3: And Councilman, we'll we'll come back to you as we have more council members in the queue. Councilman Lopez, you're up.
Speaker 2: Thank you. I was having questions along the line as Councilman Flynn, so I really want to hear back from David Brown on what? He thinks about that. But this is a step in the right direction. And I agree with my colleague on the east side.
Speaker 2: Councilman Brooks. And I think a lot of this could have been quelled. Very easily. It's looping in the neighborhoods. It's creating that relationship because at the end of the day, you could have any elaborate security system you want.
Speaker 2: There's nothing more elaborate than those nosy neighbors. And they look out for the businesses and they look out for everything in that neighborhood. So especially the ones out there in Globeville. All right.
Speaker 3: I support this. I think David Davis got the answer.
Speaker 14: No. Well, actually, at this late hour reading the sense of council, we will make sure that it codified as an amendment to the bill, that it includes both the literal and the proximate, because that's the spirit of a lot of the notification requirements that are in the code now.
Speaker 14: So if the amendment itself is improperly worded, we'll make sure it gets inserted to cover both scenarios.
Speaker 7: Okay. And that's the reason I brought that up. As I see, there are some RINO's in. MONDELLO For instance. MONDELLO Tony does not their boundaries do not include the warehouse district that where where this where cultivation is allowed.
Speaker 7: And I certainly want them to be notified if that happened.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Flynn. All right. Any other comments on the Third Amendment from Councilwoman Ortega? All right, CNN, Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 6: Ortega I. Sassaman.
Speaker 4: Right.
Speaker 6: Black. All right. Brooks Clark. All right. Espinosa.
Speaker 5: Hi.
Speaker 6: Flynn.
Speaker 7: Hi.
Speaker 6: Cashman. I can eat. Lopez. I knew. Mr. President, I am secretary.
Speaker 3: Please Thursday announce the results.
Speaker 6: 12.
Speaker 3: 12 eyes. The motion passes. How about that? All right. And unanimously. Councilman Ortega, you've got one more.
Speaker 8: I believe the last one. I think because it's so similar to one of the other ones that I brought it basically. Let me just tell you what it does and why I'm not going to bring it forward. I find it.
Speaker 8: Um. Thanks for your. So this particular amendment. Or. So this particular amendment would have proposed a cap on sales and cultivation in the statistical neighborhoods, which are the same neighborhoods or similar neighborhoods that are some a number of them are overlapping that would have basically gone into effect after.
Speaker 8: All the pending had gone through. And given that we have not had support for addressing any of these, I'm choosing to withdraw this at this point in time.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. All right. So those were your three. Councilman Lopez, did you have a motion to amend?
Speaker 2: Yes, I have two amendments that.
Speaker 3: Go right ahead. Whichever one you'd like to begin with.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I move to amend Constable's 16 to 64 and the following particulars on page four Line 12. By the following definition, 11 statistical neighborhood means a geographical neighborhood, boundaries established by the city and county in Denver in 1970, conjunction with the Community Renewal Program, consisting of combinations of census tracts to which the city has
Speaker 2: assigned geographic place names corresponding to commonly used names of subdivisions and historical parts of the city. On page eight, line 43, add new section five to the bill and renumbered each succeeding section accordingly. Section five, that section six Dash 26 to 11 shall be further amended by the addition of a new subsection F to read as follows
Speaker 2: . Section six Dash to 11 Licensing Requirements Dash Retail Marijuana Stores D Effective May 1st, 2016 New application shall be received. No license shall be issued for any new retail marijuana store in any of the following typical neighborhoods. One Overland.
Speaker 2: Two Elyria. Swansea three five points. Northeast Park Hill. Valverde. Baker Sunnyside. Globeville Montebello. Capitol Hill College View Platte Park Civic Center. Coal. That should be Hamden. As a sec, as a separate neighborhood, that's a typo. 15 Lincoln Park, La alma, 16.
Speaker 2: Rosedale, Ruby Hill and Speer. On page ten line 33 ad the new subsection e read as follows de effective me first 2016 application shall be received. No approval shall be given for the change of location for any existing license for a retail medical marijuana store to the new location in any of the following statistical neighborhoods, Oberlin is
Speaker 2: 1 to 5 points Northeast. Parkhill. Valverde. Baker. Sunnyside. Globeville. Montebello. Capitol Hill. College View Platte Park Civic Center. Cole Camden. Lincoln Park Lama. Rosedale, Ruby Hill and Speer on page 13, line 42 and new subsection G, Teresa's read as follows Effective G Effective May 1st, 2016.
Speaker 2: New application shall be received and no approval shall be given for a change of location for any existing license for a medical marijuana center to a new location in any of the following school neighborhoods. Oberlin, Elyria, Swansea, a five points Northeast.
Speaker 2: Parkhill. Valverde. Baker. Sunnyside. Globeville. Montebello, Capitol Hill College View Platte Park Civic Center Cole Hamden. Lincoln Park Larchmont. Rosedale. Ruby Hill Spur on page 13, line 43 strike any and insert except as provided here in any on page 14 after line four, insert the following any application pending on May 1st, 2016 for medical marijuana, optional premises cultivation
Speaker 2: license or retail marijuana cultivation facility license shall not be approved by the director if the premises of the proposed for licensing is located within any of the following statistical neighborhoods Oberlin, Elyria, Swansea or five points Northeast. Parkhill. Valverde.
Speaker 2: Baker. Sunnyside. Globeville. Montebello. Capitol Hill. College View. Platte Park. Civic Center. Cole Hamden. Lincoln Park, Llama, Rossdale, Ruby Hill and Spears.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Lopez has been moved and second in comments. Councilman Lopez.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. I made my points at an earlier, earlier testimony into a very similar amendment, but a little different. This one actually separates out retail medical centers, the actual marijuana centers and the cultivation, you know, as I said before, has nothing to do with it is a matter of making sure that we have choice in
Speaker 2: our neighborhoods of other uses. We don't have that in very many of our neighborhoods. And as a city, we need to do a better job. But that's not just the role of government. That's the role of everybody. Do I think, you know, here's the reasoning for all these neighborhoods.
Speaker 2: These were the neighborhoods that were identified. It was empirical. It was not just cherry picking by whatever one rhymed with Oberlin. It. It was completely empirical based off of the saturation. Right. These neighborhoods from top to bottom, saturated, saturated all the way.
Speaker 2: And there was, I think, a seven way tie from. Not mistaken with the number 13 spot. So I just I included them all in there. To be fair, no way. It didn't look like we were just picking one over the other.
Speaker 2: Just to be absolutely fair and empirical. And I hope my my colleague, Councilman Clarke, appreciates that. Empirical miss. So, you know, I hope. This if it does not pass. I just hope it strikes that discussion and that point.
Speaker 2: You know, I, I, I'm passionate about it because I live in one of these neighborhoods. I live among my whole life. I'm not one of these folks that have this this fear of marijuana. I grew up around it.
Speaker 2: I know how to roll it. I know. I know. I know. I know a lot about it. And it's one of those things that, you know, it's sad because you see you see arrests happening on around. You see you see everything that comes around with the community for good and for bad, for better and for worse.
Speaker 2: You know, it is it is one of these things that I wish people had more respect for. As a medicine. We'd be in a whole different ballgame at one. You know, if the FDA just got with it, we wouldn't have a need for a dispensary, folks.
Speaker 2: You just be able to walk into Walgreens, get the prescription and go home. Right at the end of the day. So we don't do it for Tylenol. You don't have dispensaries for Tylenol, sir. So anyway. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 2: I think folks get my point.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Lopez. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President. Councilman Lopez, I just want to clarify before I decide on this. The as far as licensing requirements for retail, everything except the cultivation. You're saying effective May 1st, no application shall be received. A no license shall be issued.
Speaker 7: Do you mean that? Does this mean that all the pending ones would also not be issued?
Speaker 2: All the pending.
Speaker 7: Okay. I would only support this if that were removed. I can support going forward with effective May 1st. No application shall be received from these neighborhoods. But we've already voted down an amendment that would have not process the pending.
Speaker 7: So if you were open to that, I could support it. And also, if you took out the cultivation section.
Speaker 2: There's only a cultivation section in the next amendment. This one doesn't have a confirmation on it.
Speaker 7: Did you not read this point on the.
Speaker 2: They have a cultivation.
Speaker 7: Yes. Any application pending May 1st for a medical marijuana optional premise cultivation.
Speaker 2: Right. You're alluding to the other.
Speaker 7: I'm curious about the list also, because it includes neighborhoods that I don't think have cultivation, Capitol Hill Civic Center especially. So if that were removed and if it only applied going forward to new licenses, I could support it, but otherwise not.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman and Councilman Black.
Speaker 4: Thank you. I appreciate everyone's concern for our neighborhoods. I have deep, deep sympathies for the injustices to a lot of our neighborhoods, particularly Globeville, Elyria and Swansea. But the injustices were not caused by the marijuana industry. The marijuana industry did not cause the odor of Purina, but has been there my entire life.
Speaker 4: Nor is it the marijuana industry's fault that there aren't grocery stores in neighborhoods. So.
Speaker 1: I'm not saying that for applause.
Speaker 4: I just I think we're confusing some things that aren't necessarily related and by preventing the pending applications to go through. It's not going to bring us a grocery store and it's not going to make Purina smell better. So those are issues that absolutely have to be addressed if we can have economic incentives to bring Panasonic and Costco
Speaker 4: . I really don't understand why we can't get grocery stores. I, I just find that really hard to believe, but I don't think that it's because of the marijuana industry. And I do want to help these neighborhoods absolutely 100%.
Speaker 4: But I think the blame should not be put on the industry. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Black. Councilman Lopez, it's okay if I go to Councilman Espinosa since you had a chance to speak.
Speaker 2: Absolutely.
Speaker 3: Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: Yeah. I'm just I'm just going to comment. The fact that these businesses are concentrated in areas that have our food deserts is not an applause line. This is sort of what I've been trying to push in committee, is that we should be using this industry, both the money it's generated and the opportunities that it can create to
Speaker 5: actually solve problems like that. And so. And when we get to the final comments, you're going to hear me say a lot about the fact that none of these proposals even touch about community benefit and how we can actually maybe liberate more locations to be eligible for this industry.
Speaker 5: Because the problem isn't these that these businesses exist. It's how they exist. We can all do better on both sides of this thing. So that's not an applause line. And I'm sorry, I just had to say something. I can't listen to that.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Espinosa. Councilman Lopez, you're up.
Speaker 2: So I draft this. And this is the making sausage part of governing governance. Right. And I'm absolutely open to having the conversation on pending. I'm absolutely open to having the conversation on which neighborhoods should be here in which should I put them all in here just to not cherry pick, to put them all here?
Speaker 2: This list was provided to me based on the numbers that are there. So as I mentioned before, finding that middle ground and keeping the fine and keeping to keeping that search on for that for that sweet spot and how we actually pass a bill that addresses a lot of this.
Speaker 2: This is this is a step in the right direction in terms of how we having that conversation. I just hope that we are all open minded to be able to do it. And secondly. You know, to address the issue on grocery stores.
Speaker 2: You're absolutely right, Councilwoman Black. It's not this industry that caused this problem. It isn't. It's a lack of regulation in the beginning that did that. It's a it's a lack of priority on a citizen that has done that.
Speaker 2: But I'll tell you a story. We decided to I mean, in the spirit of 64, Amendment 64 is to regulate like alcohol. I got excited about that because I think there's a lot of problems with alcohol regulation. I think it's a heck of a lot more dangerous of a drug than this will ever be.
Speaker 2: And so we decided to block an application through needs and desires. And that's why we have a needs and desires. And hearing in here that the community says, we have enough. You don't need it. We have a lot of them.
Speaker 2: And in our neighborhood, we have a lot of liquor stores. You can walk to all kinds of different ones from your house. Well, there's one on first inox. Now, we fought that one off. Why? Because it used to be our grocery store.
Speaker 2: And we fought another runoff. And guess what? We were able to land a grocery store. Because we fought it off. Twice. And the other one right across the street where Moka had this restaurant is matter of fact the owner the owner A and I hate this wanted a liquor store.
Speaker 2: Because of our policies, because of the things that we were working on, talking about how we modeled the needs and desires hearings here and because of our distance regulations. We were able to actually block that one and convince the owner.
Speaker 2: Of something we actually need. I and, you know, we don't have a restaurant in this little area. There. Heck, a lot of us that like us. And guess what she did. She opened that restaurant five years ago. Six years ago.
Speaker 2: It's the most popular one in the neighborhood. Sometimes it does take some pushback. Sometimes it does take us work in the market a little bit, and sometimes it does take us a step in there. And the fact that there aren't any grocery stores, that's not your fault.
Speaker 2: The fact that people raise their rents around you because they see you around. It's not your fault. They just do it. And as a byproduct, it's harder for some of these mom and pop shops to open up grocery stores.
Speaker 2: There's a lot of different reasons why grocery stores don't want to go into the. And it's not right. And someone should put a stop to that. Someone should incentivize that that conversation is taking place. But I do that and I talk about those food deserts because that is what the midst of what you are in if you
Speaker 2: are in these neighborhoods. That's just the reality of it. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Lopez, want to bring us back. If we could continue to focus on the particulars of each amendment, we will get out of here before 3 a.m.. David broadwell did. You said you wanted to chime in.
Speaker 14: It's a quick clarification. This was probably related to drafts flying around this morning. To be clear, the amendment on the floor is only supposed to be about marijuana sales stores all the way through to the end on the pending application provision.
Speaker 14: It says cultivation, but it's not meant to say stores. So this will prohibit new new stores and centers in certain neighborhoods and also cut off the pending application for marijuana sales in those neighborhoods. The next amendment is entirely about cultivation, again, blacking out certain neighborhoods and cutting off pending applications in those neighborhoods for cultivation.
Speaker 14: So that was just a word processing error. If you vote on this, understand this is going to be entirely about stores. Cultivation will be the next amendment. Sorry about that.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you so much, David, for that clarification. Councilman Flynn, you got something?
Speaker 7: Yes. Thank you. That's that's exactly what I was going to bring up. Apparently, I was looking at the Amendment one, the yellow sheet, because Councilman Lopez was reading from a yellow sheet. So I apologize. But in the list of just for clarification, the list of neighborhoods.
Speaker 7: So I guess I'll bring it up when we get to the yellow sheet.
Speaker 2: Where.
Speaker 7: We are on the other one. Okay. Amendment one. Okay. In the list, there's a neighborhood. I think there's a says Cole Hamden.
Speaker 2: It's supposed to be.
Speaker 7: It's just supposed to be Cole.
Speaker 2: That was a typo. I didn't hit the space. I should've hit the honor bar.
Speaker 7: Do you mean to include the Hamden as well? Okay, that's what I needed to know. Thank you. All right.
Speaker 2: And it was an identified neighborhood.
Speaker 7: And Councilman Lopez. Are you are you open to restricting this only to new applications after May 1st?
Speaker 2: I'm absolutely open to it.
Speaker 7: If you do that, I would vote for it.
Speaker 2: You can talk about that afterwards. Right.
Speaker 3: All right. Thank you, Councilman Flynn. So once again, thank you, David Broadwell, for that clarification so that people are aware of what this amendment speaks to specifically to stores, not cultivations. And correct me if I'm wrong, it also includes not allowing opinions as well.
Speaker 3: There was just a conversation about would he be willing to change that? Councilman Lopez says he is. However, this particular motion includes the pending. So to make sure everyone's aware of that scene.
Speaker 14: Mr. President, if I could interrupt, I don't know if that was intended to be a friendly amendment where the movement is now agreeing to sever that last paragraph. So it's not in there anymore. But that's what I heard the colloquy laid out.
Speaker 3: I was I was not I wanted to make sure we just kept the motion that Councilman Lopez originally said is on the floor that does take out pending applications. And if he wants to offer another one, I will go to that after we vote on this.
Speaker 5: All right.
Speaker 3: We got company. Yes, Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: Yeah, if I don't click in. Who? Can you trace that? So I did have a question, a clarification. Did I just hear the exchange between Councilman Flynn and Lopez say that this only applies? To do that. This was on.
Speaker 5: Two applications after May 1st.
Speaker 3: This one does not. No applications after May 1st, as well as pending applications.
Speaker 10: Thank you. All right.
Speaker 3: See the comments. Madam Secretary, roll call Lopez.
Speaker 6: I knew Ortega. I Susman. No black? No Brooks Clarke? No Espinosa. No Flynn. No passion. No carnage. No Ortega. Ortega.
Speaker 8: Oh, I'm sorry.
Speaker 6: I'm sorry. What was your vote?
Speaker 11: Had voted earlier. I.
Speaker 8: I just had pressed it on her. Okay.
Speaker 6: Can each. Mr. President.
Speaker 3: I. All right, we got them all. Madam Secretary, please close the voting results for ice.
Speaker 6: Eight nays for.
Speaker 3: Ice, eight nays. The motion has failed. Councilman Lopez, do you have one more motion you like to offer?
Speaker 2: Last one. And I will do my best to read right through it. Thank you, Mr. President. I move to amend Constable to 64 series of 2016 and the following particulars on page four Line 12 add the following definition 11 Statistical neighborhood means the geographical neighborhood boundaries established by the city and county of Denver in 1970, in conjunction
Speaker 2: with the Community Renewal Program, consisting of combinations of census tracts to which the city has assigned geographic place names corresponding to commonly used names of subdivisions in historical parts of the city. On page nine, line 27, add the subsection E to read as follows.
Speaker 2: E Effective May 1st, 2016, no application shall be received and no license shall be issued for any new retail marijuana cultivation facility in any of the following statistical neighborhoods. One Elyria. Swansea A. Two Oberlin. Northeast Park Hill. Montebello.
Speaker 2: Valverde College View Lincoln Park Lama Sunnyside Baker ATH Ma Park Five Points, Globeville and Sun Valley on page ten, line 33, a new subsection Eat or use it read as follows. Effective May 2016. No application shall be D effective May 1st, 2016.
Speaker 2: No application shall be received. No approval shall be given for a change of location of any of the existing license for a Retail America retail marijuana cultivation facility to a new location in any of the following statistical neighborhoods.
Speaker 2: Elyria. Swansea. Globeville. I'm sorry. Illyria. Swansea. Overland. Northeast Park Il. Marbella. Valverde College View. Lincoln Park Le Alma Sunnyside Baker Atheneum Park Five Points. Globeville Sun Valley on page 13, line 20, line 42. At a new subsection G.
Speaker 2: Theresa read as follows g. Effective May 1st, 2016, no application shall be received and no approval shall be given for a change of location of any existing license for a medical marijuana optional premises cultivation facility to a new location in any of the following statistical neighborhoods.
Speaker 2: On page 13, line 43 strike any and insert except as permitted provided herein any. On page 14 after line four, insert the following any application pending on May 1st, 2016 for a medical marijuana optional premises cultivation license or retail marijuana cultivation facility license shall not be approved by the director if the premises proposed for licensing is located
Speaker 2: within any of the following statistical neighborhoods. Elyria. Swansea. Oberlin. Northeast Park Hill. Montebello. Valverde College View. Lincoln Park Lama. Sunnyside. Baker. Asma Park. Five Points. Globeville and Sun Valley.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Lopez. It has been moved. Colleagues, we never moved and seconded comments.
Speaker 2: Councilman Lopez speaks for itself. Same, same principle.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Lopez. Any other comments on Councilman Lopez's Second Amendment? No comment. All right. Cena and madam secretary, welcome.
Speaker 6: Lopez. I knew. All right. Ortega I. Susman no. Black no. Brooks Clark no. Espinosa no.
Speaker 10: Flynn no.
Speaker 6: Catherine no. Kenny, no. Mr. President.
Speaker 10: I.
Speaker 3: Madam Secretary, please. First of all, right, now the results.
Speaker 6: Five, seven.
Speaker 3: Five, eight, seven, eight. The amendment has failed. All right. So that that concludes all of our amendments. So, Councilwoman Black, since the bill has been amended, we had two successful amendments. We need a motion to order published as amended.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. I move that council bill 264 be ordered, published as amended.
Speaker 3: And wait for technology to catch up. It has been moved and seconded. Before we go on to comments from members of Council, David, could you for us to summarize that? And David, Dave is not listening. Hey, David, bravo.
Speaker 3: Could you just quickly summarize it what we have now with the bill and the two amendments that were passed and I'm sure a council member would do it, but I would just defer to you as our legal.
Speaker 14: You ask me to summarize.
Speaker 3: Yeah, just that the two the two amendments that pass what we have now before us. Briefly, briefly. Yeah, briefly.
Speaker 14: Why are you asking me? This is the bill as as filed on Thursday as you saw it filed on Thursday with with some time ago. How long ago was that? The the clerk Gilmore amendment was adopted early on that struck a provision of the bill as filed regarding improving the chances of being picked in the lottery and
Speaker 14: so forth, and adding the requirement that the director assess the five five highest concentration neighborhoods, both for stores and for cultivation, prior to conducting the open application process in the lottery, either in 17 or as soon thereafter as we have capacity to do new licensing.
Speaker 14: And then the one you just adopted was broadening the random notification for all all marijuana business licenses in I and Abiy's home districts. Otherwise it remains intact. And if you order it published, we'll have a final vote next week.
Speaker 3: Thank you, David. That was very succinct. All right, council members, we are now voting on the big bill as amended. Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 10: Ura Thank you, Mr. President. For those of you who think we don't care, that we're not listening and that we don't know what we're doing, I would offer up that we do care. We are listening and we do know what we're doing.
Speaker 10: We may not be doing exactly what you want us to do, but we know what we're doing. We're trying to keep an industry afloat that.
Speaker 0: Generated $996.
Speaker 10: Million of sales last year in Colorado. We're trying to do that without crushing any individual neighborhoods.
Speaker 0: And without even more importantly.
Speaker 10: Bringing the wrath of the federal government down on us. In case anyone's forgotten, this is illegal on a federal level, and we're dancing a fine line so we could go Wild West on this and take just take all the regulations off.
Speaker 10: But I really think in this particular case, the danger is not overregulation. The danger is under regulation. Any bill that we pass is going to annoy somebody because it is going to clamp down a bit on somebody. But I think it's something that we need to do.
Speaker 10: I am not a particularly happy camper tonight. I am not happy at all about putting even one more location in in neighborhoods that are begging us not to put one more location in there. I am a neighborhood guy.
Speaker 10: I think our neighborhoods have the right to say I don't want it. Unfortunately, I agree with what Councilwoman Sussman offered up so eloquently earlier. I don't see how I can stop the pending locations. I have looked at the possibility of, as Elizabeth talked about before, some sort of fund so we can stop these locations, these new locations
Speaker 10: and make people whole. I've been advised that that's not wise. And when counsel says that if we're sued, if we were to stop these paintings and we were sued, we'd probably win. In court for various reasons. Well, that eliminates the last make hole opportunity that I've got.
Speaker 10: You know, if you open up a dispensary and it turns out you don't know how to do business and the competition beach and you lose three, four or $5 million. That is the risk of doing business. But if you follow the rules that the city presents to you.
Speaker 10: For me, that's a contract that we need to uphold. Yeah. That's all I've got. I will be supporting this bill tonight.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Cashman. Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 4: Thank you. This is really democracy in action. It's great to have everyone here. Thank you for staying so late. The diversity of opinions is incredible and we are going to compromise. And like Councilman Cashman said, most people aren't going to be happy.
Speaker 4: But that's that's what happens. Thank you to Ashley Kilroy and her staff and Stacey Locks and her staff and the other city people who have been here. Councilwoman Kanis did a tremendous job trying to accommodate everybody's different wishes on this bill.
Speaker 4: This was not the bill she started with, and she really did a lot to work with everyone. So I appreciate all of her hard work. We all want to protect neighborhoods in our kids. That is absolutely 100% true.
Speaker 4: This ordinance is much, much more restrictive than the moratorium. We're going to set a citywide cap. We've got the buffers around grows. We're going to limit where growth can be in the future. The or odor ordinance hopefully will eliminate odor.
Speaker 4: And I think that is the biggest complaint that people actually have is odor. And so hopefully we will get that worked out. We're going to prohibit medical licenses and we're going to have needs and desires hearings in neighborhoods.
Speaker 4: So my final wish is that we have a permanent council committee, whether it meets monthly or whatever. We'll just stay on top of this issue and we will continue to create legislation that addresses marijuana. I agree. We need to honor those pending it.
Speaker 4: It was the contract this city made with the business community. I think it would be damaging to our reputation. I appreciate. And Elizabeth, again, her suggestion that we could counsel people out of certain neighborhoods. And I hope that we can still do that.
Speaker 4: I know a lot of you have investments, but if some of you are still willing to look elsewhere, I think we should work with you on that. And I know some people up here said. You all need to engage more with your neighborhood.
Speaker 4: So I hope I hope you will do that. I won't go on and on. But thank you again for your passion and for being here.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Black. Councilman Brooks.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. And I want to thank all of you all for being here past midnight in those hard seats and hope your cars are okay and you don't have any tickets. I, I don't I don't take it for granted that you all are here, honestly.
Speaker 5: So I really appreciate I really appreciate you for just being here and dealing with all the issues. Councilwoman, can each my partner in crime on many subjects. I really appreciate your thorough nature in putting this together. This is.
Speaker 5: This is our job. And it's never 100% ever, ever, ever. And so we live with a constant dissatisfaction of not being able to get it right. But I hope you feel satisfied that I think you did a really good job among 3013 crazy individuals.
Speaker 5: I want to thank I want to thank the marijuana policy team led by Ashley Kilroy for all your hard work. I want to thank Stacey and her team for your hard work. So I, I represent let me just start by saying I get knocked on this council by being the pro-business guy to a to a discredit.
Speaker 5: And this is why perception isn't always reality. And we are people up here who have many different lenses and in our many different contexts. But I will tell you why. It's important for me to side with this incredible neighborhood in which I'm six blocks away from and why I'm not supporting the pending licenses.
Speaker 5: Number one, we had I believe I believe in the ethos. The ethics of business and the ethics of businesses is not so much the profit. It's about the customer in the community. And if that is not your focus, you should not be in business.
Speaker 5: I just honestly and and and here's my problem in the Cole Clayton global response he neighborhoods we had. A town hall. We had a town hall and we had 100 people come to it. And we had, as you said here, Brett King.
Speaker 5: And I appreciate that. And Brant was one of the only representatives from the industry. That's him. That's a layup. That's a give me for business and the industry to say, hey, we want to learn. What can we do?
Speaker 5: What can we do to mitigate some of the issues you're experiencing? That's really all the neighborhood wanted to see. Are there some? Can we meet in the middle? And no one showed up except for Brant. I got a big issue.
Speaker 5: I got a big issue with that. And I think the neighborhood had a big issue with that. And so I find myself in this position of, you know, this bill doesn't quite get to all the neighborhood protections in the future that we need.
Speaker 5: But I hope that there's a lesson that's learned in all of this, that there are ways to meet in the middle. And for the conversation about the grocery stores. Some of us know how to go after and get a grocery store and make it work.
Speaker 5: But we can't teach a business how to be in a community and be effective. You got to do that. And that's why we're in the place we're in and we're not discriminating. We do the same things with liquor stores.
Speaker 5: We do the same thing when there is a conglomeration of bars. We have gone in and worked hard to get a bar shut down if it's if they're not communicating, connecting with the neighborhoods. So there is no discrimination.
Speaker 5: I live in them. I represent the most eclectic district with all these issues. And so I will not be supporting this bill tonight. I can't support this bill tonight because I live in a neighborhood. I live 800 feet from a grow facility.
Speaker 5: And. When you begin to saturate and when you begin to concentrate, there's no smell ordinance that can identify where this is coming from. Right. It's not a particular location when you have all these locations in one small area.
Speaker 5: And I've never seen a council so sure of a bill. That hasn't even come through committee yet that it's going to work. So and it's much more than smell and it's much more than folks going through the dumpsters.
Speaker 5: And it's all you need to do is call and all you need to do is call enforcement. We know that communities of color do not call like that on specific issues. So this bill doesn't get here. I'm upset about tonight.
Speaker 5: I don't feel like, you know, we're getting to the issue. I think Councilwoman Black brought up a good point. We need to continue a working group to get to some of these larger issues. I am fully supportive of figuring out a financial mechanism to see some of these saturated, highly concentrated neighborhoods receive some of the resources.
Speaker 5: And so it's not the industry's fault, but they can be a part of the solution. Oh, and by the way, I got about five, six, seven people who are in the industry sitting down right now that I trust a ton.
Speaker 5: And they're doing great work. And the other thing that drives me crazy about this is they're taking the heat for some bad actors in the neighborhood. And so it's a it's a it's a tough place to be in.
Speaker 5: But I will not be supporting this. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Brooks. Councilman Lopez.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. It is not often. Necessarily that we don't call. That said, no one responds. And we found that out to be an issue with our own city. And it's that that accountability. Right. I also live in an area that is identified as one of these neighborhoods.
Speaker 2: And. I'm a council man. I'm blessed to have a job, but to be able to drive back and forth to it or take the bus, I have my choice. I also live in a neighborhood where people that don't have a lot of choices.
Speaker 2: And. They love the neighborhood. But it says something as a city when we're. Creating density in of services, an area in poorer neighborhoods. You know, willing to. Load it with services. Right. Load it with whatever we can do in the public sector.
Speaker 2: But. When we look out for the daily lives of the folks in those neighborhoods, we cut our hands off. Right. I'm talking about areas like Villa Park and Sun Valley and Wild Ride. They. These are areas that. We still have some spaces left.
Speaker 2: And there are some hopes for other uses. There are some hopes to not gentrify the neighborhood. But to develop the neighborhood in a way that folks can stay there, be there, live their lives. And I talk about this particular neighborhood because this it's interesting how this neighborhood is so adamantly against.
Speaker 2: Any more dispensaries. Associations are big time. Cultivation big time anti. And when I heard testimony from a similar organization not too far away from us in along South Broadway, they said, oh, we ain't got no problems with it.
Speaker 2: I find that to be completely interesting. At the most dispensaries in the city. And in the overland neighborhood these areas. Most dispensaries in the city. Right next to cultivation. What is it? What is it about that neighborhood in our neighborhood?
Speaker 2: Well, there's different access to different things. There are choices. And as a city, we've historically looked to neighborhoods quite differently. Right now, we need to level the playing field so that no matter what industry exists. You don't get the bat end of the stick.
Speaker 2: And but it's going to it's going to take this participation. And I think when we look at how we're regulating this, you know, I think my I can't say anything that would ever top what Councilman Cashman had said.
Speaker 2: Exactly what he says. And Councilman Black wanting to see this be a permanent. Committee is absolutely necessary. We lead the world. And how you regulate. But here's the thing. Here's the only thing I would say differently. We can come up here and meet as many times as we want and figure out and scratch our heads on how
Speaker 2: to find this middle ground. You all are the best ones to do it. You all know the interesting intricacies of your industry. The folks that you employ. And that's the kind of input we need. But we need it open and we need to be able to do it in a way that protects some of these neighborhoods and
Speaker 2: protects them in a way that allows them to have other choices and help solve some of these other industries are completely intrigued. But the idea and the thought that. The marijuana industry is helping a neighborhood get a grocery industry.
Speaker 2: Think of what that possibility could be. But we're not here to talk about that. We're here to talk about this bill. My only. My only. Torn side of this is I was completely I'm completely torn about this. And the one thing that's really keeping me.
Speaker 2: I'm fully is the respect I have for my colleague Robin each. I've texted back and forth to her. Not during public hearings. I have, you know, back and forth all day. Yesterday came in on my day off just to talk to her, to kind of pick her brain a little bit.
Speaker 2: Councilwoman Canete, you worked really hard on this and. Not for any anything else, except for if she wants to help solve this problem. And you're the one that took this on. And I want to help you solve that problem.
Speaker 2: I want to get closer to figuring this out. I absolutely honor my my colleague, Councilwoman Kenney. She is taking that higher level. And looking at this from a completely different level in a lot of us, council district members are.
Speaker 2: So I respect that, but I have to stay true. To. Our car is out there and tonight I won't be supporting this bill. But I don't think this is the end. I think this is just another step in that process.
Speaker 2: And making sure that we have a bill that takes into account seriously. What so many of us have been saying in this on this dais, but folks have been coming to these council meetings who don't have any who are not paid to do this or anything else.
Speaker 2: They don't have an industry. The only thing they got is the home that they're raising their family and they want to be able to stay there. So with that, I thank you. Thank you, Councilman. Thank you, folks, for being here.
Speaker 2: Let's help solve this together.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Lopez. Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: Where do I start? The. I mentioned it. I referenced it, sort of my frustration is, is that none of the I've been commenting, if you've been watching this whole process and then commenting from sort of early on this need to address the concerns that this industry brings or raises.
Speaker 5: And so where we stood and I'm and I'm really frustrated, actually, Ashley, I want to commend you for the work with the excise and licensing policies that we adopted. But I'm really concerned with the administration and our leadership in how we even got here 2016 in this extended moratorium.
Speaker 5: Because I knew, you know, yeah, I was sworn in in July, but I knew that there was a moratorium deadline at the end of the year. And yet we don't talk about it as counsel until November of 2015.
Speaker 5: And we create this weird situation. We approve language that puts these pending applications in limbo. And I can't like my councilwoman, my colleague, Councilman Cashman, can't can't justify putting having put out that language and saying you're okay and then pulling the rug out from underneath those industries.
Speaker 5: I mean, does does those actors and if you've been watching, you've heard me say, I have no problem with it, I have no problem with it. But that was a bit of language that I actually didn't fully understand that I had approved.
Speaker 5: And that's really a shameful thing for me to admit. But it's true. And so once I saw that specific language, I just can't do that. I can't do that to those applicants that came in before the end of July, I mean, December 31st.
Speaker 5: But one of the things that we did by waiting until the 11th hour and not getting not spending the first five months of my time here working on this legislation is that we did not. Ever put forward the effort to try to address the community concerns in any language?
Speaker 5: Prior or past, what we were talking about was another two year extension of the moratorium. So guess what? None of this matters if we're doing that. So anything that we're doing, limited or not, is still not another two year extension.
Speaker 5: What to do, what to figure this out. Because we just said we don't know enough information. But what that is, is that's status quo, how we've been operating for the previous two years since its inception and then moving forward two more years, just keep doing what we're doing as we were doing it.
Speaker 5: So no improvements, just more status quo. And that's my concern about every single thing that we've done here today or talking about amendment wise is it's more status quo. It's just a now it's just the number of businesses that are operating in that status quo.
Speaker 5: So like I said, if you've been watching, you'd see me sit there and go, well, how can we actually. Push these businesses to actually be the leaders of the community. The pride of the community. Let's take Globeville. And maybe I got my history wrong.
Speaker 5: But yes, we knew that places a meatpacking mecca in years past. And if you go down to the Orthodox Food Festival and stuff like that, and you meet multi-generational families that were from Globeville, they take real pride. They don't mind that the area stunk.
Speaker 5: They take real pride in their sense of community around an industry. Well, now we got a whole new industry, but no sense of pride around that. And so that's where I see there is an opportunity and it can either be voluntary or involuntary, and we're not getting in voluntarily.
Speaker 5: What I did have conversations had conversations with major lobbyists, big players in Denver about this. And I charged them with, hey, what can you do to bring this industry in? I mean, somewhere close to the community. And I got a commitment that we could look into that.
Speaker 5: But I'm actually sitting here going. The only language I have is the stuff that I generated myself. And unfortunately, too late to actually get get it properly vetted. But what I've been posturing for is why not? If the if the industry's not going to itself perform these duties, why not regulate it so that it does?
Speaker 5: And and so, like I said before, I'm actually more open to more flexible location allowances and stuff like that. But if we had some provisions and and you know what? I've, you know, there is a licensing I mean, licensing in Dave is going to get mad at me, but I have looked it up while we were here
Speaker 5: . The statute, the Colorado revised statute on business improvement districts, there is no limit, there is no size restriction on boundaries or specific operate, you know. You know, the specific I have already dropped my language. But anyway, what we can do through our licensing requirements is we can require certain bits and pieces of information to be in an
Speaker 5: operating plan. And what that can do, I mean, then operating plan then has to be approved by the city. And so these property owners that want this industry, we could make it so that they actually get into into essentially a voluntary district that they make themselves eligible for these things.
Speaker 5: That's a public private meeting. That's a vote of themselves. But it is a you know, this this operating plan and these other things could we could we could make that part of the hearing process, part of the approval process, and we could talk about those requirements so that we actually get some sort of commitment.
Speaker 5: So I and so I'm going to I'm throwing that out there because here's what I would like to see happen. I would like the council to take another 45 days, sorry, to devise a means to mitigate the impact of these types of facilities on the surrounding residential communities.
Speaker 5: I'm only concerned about that. Like you heard me talk about how Montebello is an industrial industrial area. Stapleton is the same way. And then there are parts of my district, Sunnyside, I mean, yeah, and in Sun Valley that just people aren't living.
Speaker 5: It was designed for industry to exist. So when we're talking about this interface between actual living communities and schools, that's what that's my area of concern. So I in particular, I would like industry specific districts with specific requirements to address facade treatment, site lighting, odor control, right away improvements and community outreach.
Speaker 5: You know, that's amorphous. But I think we can I think we can hammer down what that is so that we actually our our marijuana industry becomes a pride because it already is a source of revenue. It's a source of it's a driver, a catalyst in this community.
Speaker 5: But why not? Why not amplify rather than mute? So these conditions would be a requirement. The way I would see this as not making these pending applications ascribe to this, because like you said, the rules were set. But what we would do is we would create a series of triggers so that as there were changes or as
Speaker 5: there were licensing issues and things like that, that these things would have to be assumed so that you're making a calculated decision after May 5th, I mean, May 1st or actually July 1st or something like that. So again, you continue to operate the way we are, but we set a time limit and this is not unheard of
Speaker 5: . We do this in the building code, right? You don't have to modify your building until you choose to modify your building, even though the code changes every two years. And so we we can do that. We have the tools, we have the wherewithal.
Speaker 5: So I think but I just we need a little more time to figure that out. That said, I do want to commend Councilwoman Canete, because you did a hell of a job getting it this far that we can even talk about that.
Speaker 5: And I appreciate you mentioning this notion of Community Improvement Fund, because if this goes through, that's the piece that I'm going to say. Let's let's I've got you on camera. That's the part I'm going to hold you to.
Speaker 5: I don't know how that one works, but. But that that's that's what I wanted to get out there. Thank you very much.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Espinosa. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Excuse me. Thank you, Mr. President. I am going to vote no on this. One of the major. Elements that I wanted was a lower cap and it's not part of it, and I can't support it without a lower cap.
Speaker 7: I also can't support it with the thousand foot buffer from residential zones. That impacts the only areas where we actually permit cultivation. But I think as was amply shown during the testimony and during the comments. Denver We talk about how we have saturated neighborhoods.
Speaker 7: We have a saturated city in relation to the metro area and the state. If all the pending licenses go through city and county of Denver, we'll have just about 49% of all the licenses in the state of Colorado.
Speaker 7: We have a saturated city. It's not just some of our neighborhoods. So I want to see something that has a lower cap and not just what we serendipitously end up with after processing all of the applications. And then one last point to Councilman Lopez and Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 7: There is actually a nexus between supermarkets and marijuana outlets. I know from personal experience, for example, that Kroger King Soopers does not want to be in shopping centers where there's a marijuana shop. So to the extent it comes from Lopez, a District three in fills with marijuana shops, your chances of landing a Kroger outlet is diminished somewhat
Speaker 7: . So, Councilwoman Black, there is somewhat of a nexus between the two. So I would I'm going to vote no on this, and I would urge my colleagues to do so as well. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Flynn. Councilwoman Canete.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. President. I was thinking about waiting till the end, but I thought it was important to go before everyone had had a chance to dig themselves into their final votes. I, too, want to thank the staff.
Speaker 9: The enormous personal cost that they have all invested in the time they have spent preparing numerous maps, documents, spreadsheets. They're all here now. They've been working this weekend. They've been working mates and they've been working mornings. And you really can't actually thank public servants enough for the kind of dedication, especially when they serve elected officials.
Speaker 9: We're a hard bunch to serve. And I just want each of the departments to know how personally I appreciate all of their time and their effort. It's it's hard to imagine what this process might have looked like if we had taken the slow path.
Speaker 9: I think Councilman Espinosa touched on this point. You know, if we had just said time out, two years. I think that there is something to be said for the frequency with which we met and the depth with which we could go when we were meeting that frequently that as difficult as this speedy process has been, perhaps allowed
Speaker 9: us to really stay focused in a way that would have been much more difficult if we'd met once a month over the course of two years. And honestly, I think it would not have been led by this council.
Speaker 9: And and I like Councilman Espinosa. I mean, I stepped up in part because I am responsible. I was a carryover council member. And, you know, I, too, could have and should have stepped up and prompted conversation sooner and did not.
Speaker 9: And so it is in part that sense of responsibility that has me feeling like it is our job as a council to engage and to lead. We are we have more resources, the 13 of us, in terms of interacting directly with the community, ironically, than than than the administration.
Speaker 9: We just have a different access to our communities and a different ability to to engage them. And and so so I want to just thank my colleagues, frankly, for the breakneck speed and pace that we've pursued. This I, I would not support a delay.
Speaker 9: I don't believe that we can necessarily bridge the Gulf that we have on pending applications. It is such a moral issue for folks. And and just speaking for someone who has aired on the side of allowing the pending applications to proceed it, I do it at great cost.
Speaker 9: I don't take it lightly. I have there is not an argument that I have heard in this entire debate that I would consider invalid, particularly for those community members, most of whom are not in this chambers anymore. I hope that they or their, you know, their their organizers with whom they're working are watching or summarizing.
Speaker 9: But to the residents of Globeville, to Elyria, Swansea, I we do still have my fellow here. We had a resident from Cap Hill who had no affiliation to those residents who are not employed or affiliated, but who put their time and effort in.
Speaker 9: You have changed this conversation. You have changed this bill. You have changed me through this process. I think that Mickey spoke very Mickey Kaplan spoke very eloquently about the idea of how communities feel empowered. And one way that you feel empowered is that you get everything that you asked for.
Speaker 9: But another way that you can feel empowered is to know that you changed the conversation. I am serious about my my commitment to carrying a budget proposal to this council that includes a community impact fund approach. I am serious about probably the 3 to 5, maybe even six changes I made to this bill in direct response to
Speaker 9: the feedback I heard from communities and so organized communities, eloquent communities, communities that spoke from the heart. You have an impact make on impact value in mutual spaces, which is opportunity that is. I can be our. Khorasan is imminent.
Speaker 9: This you've changed hearts and you've changed minds. So I want to say to my colleagues now, I'm a no vote on this bill does not get you a more stringent bill. Reminder that a no vote if no bill gets out of this council, the moratorium ends.
Speaker 9: And we could revisit this Gulf on pending applications for 45 more days or 45 more months. And I do not believe we would probably change the hearts and minds of folks on that issue any further than they have moved that that divide has stayed.
Speaker 9: And I'm counting votes, as my colleagues know, probably several times a day. Folks have just not moved on it. And so I.
Speaker 4: Say to you.
Speaker 9: Why put the community through that additional time on an issue that we have debated for weeks publicly? We have debated this issue more publicly and more transparently than probably any other major debate we've had. We don't ever debate zoning laws before they come.
Speaker 9: We you know, the camping ban was mostly debated on the floor and one or two committee meetings. This is the most transparent debate we've ever had. And I believe that we all compromised in the process of doing hard fought things.
Speaker 9: I was once told when I was running for office that someone who did not agree with me on every issue said that they were going to support me because they thought the council had a lot of 12, one and 13 zero votes.
Speaker 9: And that probably wasn't good for the city because if you don't have some divided votes, you're probably not taking on hard enough issues and you're probably not digging deep enough into them. And so we've done that. But what that means is that people walk away without everything.
Speaker 9: So a no vote on this bill is a luxury. It's a luxury to vote no and then say, okay, what are you going to replace it with? Because there are not the votes on this council to replace this bill with something else magically.
Speaker 9: Okay. So we have 12 members here today in a66 vote kills this bill tonight. We have a missing member who will be back this next week. And we can talk about if this bill fails. But again, a no vote doesn't get you something else you want.
Speaker 9: It just says no to what's on the table. And there's a risk in that. This bill has.
Speaker 4: Moved.
Speaker 9: Twice tonight towards opponents. Towards opponents. I'm not I have never once been excited about this thousand foot residential buffer. The first time I saw it, and I saw that it hit 57.98% of all facilities, I said no way could I ever support something.
Speaker 9: If we're going to do that, let's just ban GROSS. Let's just do it. But I moved, as did others in this dais, towards opponents, towards those who wanted more. So I've moved twice tonight. Others have moved twice tonight, moved two or three times in committee.
Speaker 9: So I ask those of you.
Speaker 4: Who will.
Speaker 9: Seek a more conservative.
Speaker 4: Bill. Where have you moved?
Speaker 9: When have you moved? And if there are not the votes for your position, how can you in good conscience kill this bill and put us through another and not just us as council members, but this community through months?
Speaker 9: More of debate, right? Without the votes to move an alternative. So I ask one several of those of you who have reservations, who wished who wished that one of these amendments might have passed to acknowledge the distance that has been traveled, to acknowledge the impact that these communities have had in this bill, and to move us forward
Speaker 9: , not to end the conversation, but to continue it on all of the fronts, to continue it with a serious set aside. I to my councilman colleague, Councilman Espinosa, I agree with you that we should be using the resources and the treasure of this of this industry to benefit communities.
Speaker 9: If we needed more money to do that, we could take 45 more days to create a new mechanism. Again, I don't think it's a bid because even if you have one business in a bid, guess where you can raise the money, you can use it on the sidewalk in front of that business.
Speaker 9: You can't use it outside the zone. So you can have a one business bid, but the money can't go outside that area. So here's the thing. We don't actually need more money. We have a surplus above and beyond the city's reserves right now, a surplus that arguably was buffered quite a bit by this industry.
Speaker 9: We have the money. We have a budget mechanism. We don't need to delay this bill to pursue that kind of an investment in these communities. We should. And you have moved me. This would not have been my my budget proposal, but for this conversation and the impact this community's had.
Speaker 9: So I say that we have the tools we need to continue this conversation in the budget and in the other areas. And I urge us to bring this to a closure of this chapter so that we can move on to those other chapters.
Speaker 9: This has been an extremely constructive process. I want to thank everyone for their respectful disagreements, the sincere efforts to keep the lines of dialog open. I have never probably felt as collaborative with this council as I have in this bill, and we can use that collaboration on the next step.
Speaker 9: So I urge those of you who who thought you were going to vote no, who've stated you were to reconsider, to move this bill on to a second week. There is anything else we can do between first reading and second reading.
Speaker 9: My door continues to be open. But let's move on. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilwoman. Can each councilman. Clerk.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. There's so much to say. And yet it's almost 1:00 in the morning. So I'll try and boil this down as quickly as I can. My. My heart. In this issue, five of the top 12, no matter whether you look at storage or cultivation from a neighborhood, statistical neighborhood, five of the top 12 are
Speaker 10: neighborhoods that I represent. I am one of two councilmembers to my knowledge, and I don't have everyone's home address. So correct me if I'm wrong, but one of two council members who lives in a neighborhood that appears on one of those two lists.
Speaker 10: And I'm raising a seven year old and a nine year old. So I think that I feel the impact and the weight of what we're discussing up here. And I relate with both sides of this debate as people come up and I hear, you know, the emotion and the passion and the fear in people's voices.
Speaker 10: I've said in committee before and I'll say again, this body, it's our job to write the rules. And it gets harder and harder every day. Still, in my first year, as six of my other colleagues are seven of us total to put that blame back to another council.
Speaker 10: And here I think we sit with that perfect example. I have said before, all along the way, we set the rules and I feel like we've come to so many compromises tonight. We have voted and we have openly debated so many things.
Speaker 10: And we've come to a bill that is in front of us, that has been amended, has been tweaked, has been changed with as many areas as could get enough votes. And that's how we work. Do we get enough votes?
Speaker 10: And now here we are faced with do we pass a bill or do we not? And I've said before, anywhere along the line, we could have closed the door. And I will say we now an own it because this is us as a body and I'm not trying to go after anyone in particular or anyone who's voting
Speaker 10: one way, but as a body of city council left the door open during the previous moratorium and said These things are okay, continue doing them. When we extended this moratorium and said We're going to take time to think in January, we could have closed the door on pending applications and we didn't.
Speaker 10: Whether that was the right decision or the wrong decision at the time, we are going to vote on something today. And if this bill fails after all the compromises that we've made. We're going to ask for more time to think about it tomorrow.
Speaker 10: Someone maybe in this room, but across the city, people are going to spend money because tonight we tell them it's okay, because tonight we say these are the rules and then we're going to take 45 more days to decide whether we're going to pull the rug, slam the door.
Speaker 10: It's time for us to make a decision. And we've debated what it looks like moving forward. And I feel like there is enough consensus on that. And we have debated protections for neighborhoods and different models for that. And we've come up with an amendment that was the one that had enough support.
Speaker 10: And now it's time to do something. Faith in government is at an all time low. And it's because more often than not, government doesn't do anything. It's not, What are we doing that I'm mad about? Then be mad about it.
Speaker 10: But we're doing something. It's that we're not doing anything. We have debated for hours and hours and hours and there are either enough votes or there weren't enough votes and there was ample opportunity for amendments. Clearly, anyone who said I think it should be this way could throw it on the table and we could vote in public
Speaker 10: in front of all of you. And there's either enough support for it or there's not. And now we're here, and our choice is do nothing. And that's what I've always loved about city councils. The only reason I decided to get into politics is that I felt like city council was different.
Speaker 10: It wasn't about doing nothing and fighting about doing nothing. It was about having a healthy dialog and a healthy conversation. And you don't win them all. But at the end of the day, it's about doing something. We've had our chance to amend this bill.
Speaker 10: We've had our chance to change this bill. We either need to close the doors tonight and let people have closure or we need to set the table for what we're doing. The time for dialog is over and now it's time to move it forward.
Speaker 10: There were chances to change and amend this in every way and I feel like it will be a disservice. We will have failed as a body if we are if we choose to walk away tonight as a body saying.
Speaker 10: We've done nothing. We've sat here since we switched over to this item at 8:00, 9:00. And at the end of the day, if we don't pass this bill after all this work together, after listening to you, to all of you, and listening to each other and making our peace heard and having the opportunity to say our piece
Speaker 10: . If this bill fails, we will have done nothing for the last 5 hours. And tomorrow people will be spending money. And we will still be deciding whether we're going to pull out the rug. We're going to still leave neighborhoods in limbo about whether now anything will happen and a moratorium will expire and it will be free market
Speaker 10: , because that's what we do. If we don't pass this bill. So I would implore my colleagues that the time for dialog is over and it's time to get something done. It's not perfect. We were on grand display today showing that democracy is messy.
Speaker 10: It's passionate, it's emotional, it's messy. Now let's do our job and get something done before we leave here tonight, because it would be a tragedy to have done all of this and to have done nothing. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Clark. Councilwoman Ortega.
Speaker 8: Thank you, Mr. President. You're right. It is messy. And it doesn't mean that because we disagree that. We shouldn't stand by your principles on the things that we think are important, that, you know, some of us tried repeatedly to get addressed in this process.
Speaker 8: But, you know. Some of these issues just did not get clearly covered in the process. So, you know, the 20 foot buffer from schools. Okay. We're going to deal with that. But it's only after we have 266 number of those have already been approved.
Speaker 8: But that's how many pending applications we had when this process started. And. When it started, we had the neighborhood saying to us. Hey, guys, we need some relief. We were feeling boxed in in our own neighborhoods by this industry.
Speaker 8: I think by and large, we've had a really good dialog with the industry. I have been in a number of facilities. You know, I'm not anti-marijuana. You may feel that way because of the amendments that I've brought forward.
Speaker 8: But the reality is this is trying to strike a balance between having quality of life in our neighborhoods and allowing the industry to exist. And, you know, the fact is, we did stop pending applications with the omnibus bill.
Speaker 8: We didn't hear all the screaming and hollering when we did that. We had the ability to do that here. But, you know, the votes weren't here to address that. We have a number of outstanding issues that this body hasn't even started to talk about.
Speaker 8: You know, the state legislature started having a conversation about the potency. That's the potency on the chips is where the biggest concern in the impact, especially to kids, is that my concern from day one has been what are we doing to ensure that we're protecting keeping this product out of the hands of our kids and making sure
Speaker 8: that where we have saturation in neighborhoods where we have lots of kids that, you know, we're looking at, how do we ensure that folks are keeping their dumpster lids closed and that they're not leaving? Marijuana leaves all over their parking lots.
Speaker 8: Like one of the facilities that I toured where that's exactly what I walked up to when I when I went to this facility. You know, so if it's that available, kids are going to look for this stuff and, you know, what are we doing to ensure that we're addressing all of those things?
Speaker 8: Yes, we have an enforcement arm. You know, there's compliance, but we don't have enough inspectors to be at all these facilities all the time to ensure that everybody's following the rules to the tee. And I think it's the bad actors who are typically not the people who come to these meetings and not the people trying to, you
Speaker 8: know, ensure that they are in compliance, that that are creating part of this problem. I also appreciate the businesses who came to the public meeting that Councilman Brooks talked about earlier because they wanted to hear what the neighbors had to say.
Speaker 8: I actually talked to a couple of the guys from Live While and I know there were more more of you that are in this room that were at that meeting. There were Councilman Brooks was was indicating but the folks from live well we talked about coordinating a meeting with all the groups facilities in the neighborhood and starting
Speaker 8: to have this conversation. I think, you know, the discussion we're hearing tonight about how do we do that in a much bigger way is an important conversation. And, you know, remember, you know, as a city, we could actually tax this at a higher rate.
Speaker 8: I'm not suggesting that's what we need to do, but it's it's something that we could be doing. And we've not even had that conversation about how do we address some of these unintended consequences, not only to the neighborhoods, but, you know, you guys have heard these discussions, many of them that have been had at the state level
Speaker 8: . We've had some of the input here in the committee meetings when we had presentations from different individuals and not just from Smart, Colorado, but talking about the impact that we're seeing in our schools. I've got grandkids that go to school and they talk about how easily this is accessible to kids.
Speaker 8: And you look at the statistics of how many eighth graders have access to it. It's it's astounding. And so protecting our kids and being in compliance with the Cole memo is one of the things that I think is paramount.
Speaker 8: Otherwise, we jeopardize a whole damn industry and the federal government come in and shut us down at any point in time saying, you know what, you guys did not heed the warnings and let's just shut them all down.
Speaker 8: And so that has been my threshold with which I've been trying to, you know, kind of. Encourage and urge us to be paying such close attention to, because I think the the reality is at any point, the whole industry is in jeopardy unless across the country everybody votes to pass it.
Speaker 8: And, you know, that hasn't happened yet. The other thing I think is important is. We were adamant that we were going to shape this. And yes, we had input and involvement from our marijuana policy office, but it was we need this information, provide us that information.
Speaker 8: It wasn't a partnership in terms of saying help us look at the things that you guys are dealing with and you get calls about day in and day out so that we're doing this together and not just saying we're the legislative body and we're going to figure it out alone.
Speaker 8: I think we could have done a much better job in that in that arena to ensure that. It was a little bit more comprehensive then than what we were able to do. And, you know, I sincerely appreciate the efforts of Councilwoman Canete, who, you know, worked to try to round up the thoughts and ideas of what had
Speaker 8: been put on the table. But I'm. I'm frustrated that we really have ignored. Through through the. To where we are now in this process. The voice of the neighbors. Who. Who are just. You know, we've we've had people come to these meetings.
Speaker 8: I've talked to one woman who cried after leaving a meeting feeling so frustrated. Like, we are not listening. And you heard that testimony tonight from a couple of the Spanish speakers. Whoo! You know, I was insulted that a couple of people were laughing while we had a Spanish speaker trying to talk, whether it was directed at that
Speaker 8: or not. That's what I saw. And, you know, if this is how industry folks feel about the neighborhoods that they're in, that they're impacting. You know, we're going to get nowhere. So we need to have a serious attempt at trying to figure out how do we.
Speaker 8: Address the real impact to these communities? Yes, I get that. You know, when the framework was created about where the medical facilities were originally placed and again, none of us were here except Councilman Lopez. Because that was done before we all got elected.
Speaker 8: Yes. That identified primarily the industrial areas. And that meant that some neighborhoods were going to get them and then other neighborhoods weren't going to get any. And and that's what you see. There are some neighborhoods that have, you know, very little of any of the retail facilities.
Speaker 8: But you see that it's predominantly low income neighborhoods and minority communities that are saturated with the grow facilities. And the odor ordinance is going to be 18 months before folks have to comply. So for the next 18 months, you know, these neighborhoods still have to deal with that problem.
Speaker 8: So I'm not there. I'm not there on on supporting this. I know we've all put a lot of work into it. I've attended every meeting that that I could be at. I think I may have missed one. But, you know, we're all trying to give input on how we can get there.
Speaker 8: And I'm just not there yet.
Speaker 4: So thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Ortega. Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 7: Thanks, Mr. President. Just briefly, I want to slightly differ slightly from the suggestion that the folks who are intending to vote no tonight haven't moved on anything. I feel personally, I've moved a lot on the things I wanted and we've all moved toward each other trying to find those seven votes and we all move for the same
Speaker 7: reason, and that was to try to get the seven votes. So we built an extra week into this process precisely because of this possibility. And I would suggest the people who who want to vote yes just to move it on, that you that you can vote no because we have another week to work with.
Speaker 7: But the suggestion that the people who are voting now haven't surrendered anything that they wanted just was disproven tonight by the fact that a number of these amendments lost. Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Clay and Councilman Lopez.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. President. On my screen, I see two Espinosa's. Maybe that's because I've been to Espinosa that out, but I see two Espinosa right here. Espinosa out. Yeah, I've been. It's been. I was out. I'm tired. I China has done.
Speaker 2: The first contact. Hi. Without anything that's working. Mr. President, I chimed in because I was moved by. But Robin, what Councilwoman Kenny had said. And. I know at this moment it's a little late, but. I am willing in this next week.
Speaker 2: To make some of those moves to the middle. With my amendment. I know we had a discussion. On this dais. And I know that was an unanswered question in terms of the pending and has it as it relates to this amendment, number one.
Speaker 2: And I'm willing to have those conversations. Uh, Councilwoman, I do want to meet you at the middle. I don't want your work to go in vain. Not necessarily because I've known you. And you're my homegirl. But. Because I think, you know.
Speaker 2: That's just what we do. This is the sausage making that's happening. And I think. In this next. Weak, perhaps, that we have built in. I'd like to explore that idea. And if there are open minds. I'm open on what neighborhoods are there.
Speaker 2: And I'm open on. What applications are there and what are. So. Just a final comment.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Lopez. Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: Yeah. I don't know if you're paying attention. You notice that I actually didn't say how I was going to vote. That's because I'm pretty torn, to be honest with you. But the comments here matter. And so it's going to be clear who this is directed to.
Speaker 5: The time for dialog is not over. The comments by the bill author were a very open door. Thank you, Robin. So to that end, my concerns that I already stated, meaning I already stated in my comments that I supported the pending apps and that I'm not interested in changing the rules for those that are already in the
Speaker 5: queue. I am interested in changing how this how we. The outcomes that we're getting going forward. And I would, I heard in Robin's dialog and others is that yeah. So this bill goes through. There's still a chance to amend or put in different, different rules and different ordinances.
Speaker 5: So this is not the end of the line or the end of conversation, I hope. So to that end, if I need to be the seventh vote to get you to next Monday, I'm happy to do that. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Espinosa. Any of the comments on 264? I will I will chime in and then we will go to a vote. Juan, I want to apologize. I was I was confident I could get you out here by midnight.
Speaker 3: I was grossly wrong. I tried really hard to push this through. And but I appreciate the dialog one from you and your perseverance to stick around as well from our council colleagues. You know, this body decided in November.
Speaker 3: We wanted to tackle this head on. We wanted to we wanted to dove in like we did a couple of years ago when there wasn't an Office of Marijuana Policy. And we have that prerogative as a body. And from that was information, I believe, that we weren't aware of.
Speaker 3: When you go down into the weeds like the agencies do, you learn some things that you were unaware of and it allows you to make a more informed decision. And that's why I have no problem saying we should stop the pending applications.
Speaker 3: And I think it's important we start from a reality of where we are. And Councilman Flynn said this, and I'll just echo it. We're not in a free market. We're not. And I it's a great argument. It's a great soundbite.
Speaker 3: But that's not the reality that we live in. And there is saturation. I wrote down the comment. One person said so-called saturation. That is that is absolutely a naive opinion. And my the way that I look at to say that there are communities that are not saturated, it is not so-called it is real.
Speaker 3: And I don't believe anybody on this body is wanting to stop the industry. The industry is being very successful, as Councilman Ortega said, very generous in the legislation that we passed earlier. And you thrived. And I think for us to take a look now and say, how can we, for lack of a better word, level the playing
Speaker 3: field so communities feel and I say communities feel because right now they don't feel this way. Communities feel they're being heard. How can we do that? And I believe that's one way to to help, is we're stopping the pending applications because the community, the industry will still thrive.
Speaker 3: People will still have the ability to get the marijuana anywhere that they need and very openly. So I don't understand how as I listen to people speak, they speak about how we're being unfair. One person said they were experiencing anger and sadness.
Speaker 3: Well, I imagine that's how rich barrios feels. And for those of you who don't know who Richard Barrow is, he's the site director for the Montebello Boys and Girls Club. And he came and spoke about how that has impacted his community when he sees these kids know they have more access to marijuana than anything else.
Speaker 3: One person mentioned that there are businessperson how they would be the ultimate loser if we stop the pending applications. I respectfully disagree. I would say the ultimate loser would be the communities, particularly the Globeville area, Swansea. That has said repeatedly over and over again help us so that we can have something that is not just marijuana throughout
Speaker 3: our entire community. I don't think there's anything wrong in saying let's help these communities and was and I appreciate Councilman Brooks's perspective when he said not a lot of industry representatives came to the table and say, yes, we can do better, because I didn't hear that generally speaking.
Speaker 3: And that's what I hope we can hear because the industry is here to stay, but you can absolutely be a better community partner and the first thing you do is acknowledge that. And I hope we can get to a point where the community does that.
Speaker 3: And I know there are some people that have that recognize that, but generally speaking, it's just about us and how government is getting in your way. And as Councilman Flynn said, this is regular. This is illegal in the eyes of the federal government.
Speaker 3: So, yes, we have a responsibility to go a little bit closer than we would than a restaurant. Because I remind people, restaurants are in this entire city. Restaurants are in every neighborhood. Marijuana dispensaries are not. So no, I don't support the pending applications.
Speaker 3: No, I do not feel bad about changing my opinion because I now see taking a deep dove how that has detrimentally impacted particular communities. And I believe we have a responsibility and an obligation to help those. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 6: Look, I. Brooks.
Speaker 5: No.
Speaker 6: Clark. Hi, Espinosa. Hi, Flynn.
Speaker 7: No.
Speaker 6: Can I. Can I. Lopez?
Speaker 10: No.
Speaker 6: New Ortega assessment. I. Mr. President.
Speaker 3: No. Councilwoman each. Madam Secretary, please close vote. Announce the results.
Speaker 6: 66 nays.
Speaker 3: 66 nays accountable to 64 as amended has failed. One three adjournment announcement Monday, April 18th Council Hold Required Public Hearing Council Bill 215 Designating 4655 Humble Street the stadium area as a structure for preservation. See, I know of a business before this body.
Speaker 3: This meeting is adjourned.

Speaker 11: Again, Cherry Creek neighborhood in the Cherry Creek North Retail District, one block north of the Cherry Creek Shopping Center, four blocks south of Sixth Avenue, seven blocks east of university. There is a view plane, the Premier Park View plane that covers the property.
Speaker 11: So maximum heights would only be allowed up to 160 feet. Again, the land use is commercial. Currently a two story commercial. Existing zoning. Cherry Creek North eight and seven already exist on the west side of the property. Stepping down, you'll notice two to Cherry Creek North, five and four following the Cherry Creek Plan.
Speaker 11: And then a party that is outlined in yellow is the property we're talking about tonight. And to the east of that, another PD and then more Cherry Creek North zoning to the south. So again, commercial use surrounding on both south and east and then office on north and west.
Speaker 11: It's gives you an idea of the property upper right and then the surrounding office and commercial uses. Bottom is a restaurant across Second Avenue. So this was it planning board on February 3rd and planning board unanimously recommended approval.
Speaker 11: And then we were at the Neighborhoods and Planning Committee on March 2nd and the item was moved on to the floor of City Council. Today we have one letter from the Cherry Creek North Neighborhood Association that they said they would not oppose this rezoning.
Speaker 11: So the review criteria, consistency with adopted plans, uniformity of district regulations, furthering the public health, safety and welfare, justifying circumstances, inconsistency with neighborhood context in zoned district purpose and intent. The plans that apply to this area are accomplished in 2000 and Blueprint, Denver and of course the new Cherry Creek Area Plan adopted in 2012.
Speaker 11: Comprehensive plan tells us to conserve land by promoting infill development, encouraging quality infill development, maintaining Cherry Creek Shopping Center, ensuring Creek North as the premier retail destinations in the metro area and the region. Blueprint Denver It's an area of change.
Speaker 11: A pedestrian shopping center which is mixed use entertainment retail with lots of pedestrian amenities scaled to be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. Street classifications for Saint Paul and designated local and for Second Avenue and Main Street Collector. So the the framework plan for Cherry Creek acknowledges that we need to continue to grow in Cherry Creek and change
Speaker 11: and tells us to update the blueprint. Denver Areas of Change Map and modify the land use policy and zoning regulations to implement the recently adopted plan. So this is a picture of the new areas of change as adopted in the Cherry Creek Area plan.
Speaker 11: On the left, the older areas of change map I'm sorry. On the left is the older one. On the right is the new amended areas of change map that was changed by the Cherry Creek Area Plan. The property remains in an area of change on both maps, so in the Cherry Creek Area Plan also has sub area
Speaker 11: discussions and this property is in the Cherry Creek Shopping District and the property more specifically is called out as part of the regional center and where we want to continue to support mix a mixture of uses including office, retail, commercial and multifamily and to retain and enhance Cherry Creek's unique physical character and of course, encourage reinvestment.
Speaker 11: But probably the most significant recommendation on this page is the transition in building height from Second Avenue to Third Avenue, higher heights and Second Avenue trend is transitioning. So Second Avenue, eight stories transitioning down to four stories in the little graphic down below that, the wedge graphic that you see in the center, lower center of the screen
Speaker 11: . So staff believes that this proposal does conform to the Cherry Creek Area Plan, Blueprint, Denver and Comp Plan 2000. So we think it is consistent with our adopted plans and that by moving away from this customized zoning, we are furthering the uniformity of district regulations.
Speaker 11: And by implementing our area plans, we are furthering the public health, safety and welfare. The justifying circumstance for this rezoning is changed circumstances. The land or its surrounding environs has changed or is changing to a degree that it's in the public interest to encourage redevelopment.
Speaker 11: The property is located in an area of change that is changing from a solely retail to a mixed use residential and retail land use. And it is in character with the existing area. So the context, urban center context is multi-unit, residential, commercial strips and centers, multi-unit buildings typically in the forms of row house or apartments and multi-unit
Speaker 11: residential and commercial uses, primarily located on residential collectors, mixed use arterials or local streets and the blocks, of course, shaped by the grid street system and the Cherry Creek North. Seven and eight zone districts were specifically tailored for Cherry Creek North and again speak to that transition from second to Third Avenue where we're stepping down in height
Speaker 11: . So with that, staff recommends approval and believes all criteria are met.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you. Miss Cicero. We've had two speakers for this publication, Marcus Faulkner and Matt Joe Blume. So Mr. Faulkner, you can go ahead and Jared.
Speaker 2: Terrific. Good evening, counsel. President Council members my name is Marcus Partner 7290 East First Avenue. I want to thank you very much for allowing us to speak tonight about this rezoning in deference to your docket this evening. We only have two speakers here, but please do not let that dissuade you from the amount of outreach and work
Speaker 2: we have done in the Cherry Creek neighborhood. We have worked on this rezoning for approximately nine months with the neighborhood associations and John, all of the neighboring associations. And we believe this is an application that is very reflective of the Cherry Creek Plan.
Speaker 2: I will say in passing and thanks to Theresa for going through all the justifying circumstances, it is a rarity when there's a neighborhood that has done as much to come forward with the Cherry Creek Plan, with area stakeholders and leaders and city and actually success suggest zone districts that go along with that plan.
Speaker 2: It is even more rare when then said neighborhood leader becomes an elected official to be sure that you actually follow that correctly. So we are here tonight in many ways to to verify and work and reflect what we think is really been a number of years working on the Cherry Creek Plan.
Speaker 2: And Matt Jobling is here on behalf of BMC. He is BMC. He's working on four or five very high profile projects in Cherry Creek. And we believe that is absolutely our calling, is to work with the neighborhood and really have these plans be some of the great examples of urban development in the city.
Speaker 2: So with that, we'd certainly request your support tonight. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Joplin.
Speaker 5: Council. President, Member City Council, thank you very much for this opportunity. Honored and humbled to be in front of you for the first time for this project. I will be extremely brief as well. Not to waste your time, but please feel free to ask any questions you guys want on the project.
Speaker 5: You have a pack in front of you and I'll just go through it. But my name's Matt Job and BMC Investments in the CEO located at this project 210 St Paul and also 3003 East Third Avenue. The whole development team are all people from Denver.
Speaker 5: Very important to us to support the local community there. We have five projects in Cherry Creek. Number one is Steel Creek, which is fully up and operating. We've we're 96% leased great retailers we brought in. The key part about that was we worked very close with Cherry Creek East and made dramatic changes to the building based on
Speaker 5: their request that were, you know, better for the neighborhood, better for the overall pedestrian experience. We're about to open in 90 days what I believe will be one of the best hotels in all of Denver called the Halcyon in place of the old.
Speaker 5: The Old Post Office again worked very close with Cherry Creek North Neighborhood and working on that project. As an example, they requested that we heat the whole sidewalk again. We did that for them, worked with them on some other things as well there.
Speaker 5: We just started construction this week on the Moxy Hotel right behind it. A key point there is that we utilize the 15% open space. However, we're doing significantly more open space in the actual requirement and working very hard with the neighborhood to actually program that space if we can have lots of community events.
Speaker 5: The project we're talking about tonight is 210 Saint Paul. It has a sister building that's zoned already on Third and Saint Paul. The project we're talking about is 81 luxury units, 11,000 square feet of retail. Looking to break ground this July and open the building October of 2017.
Speaker 5: The next page of the zoning map, which Teresa already went over and then tells you what we're trying to do here. We're not asking for any variance in any way, shape or form, and in fact, are going above and beyond the requirements of the current zoning, specifically offering 31 more parking spaces and the zoning code requires.
Speaker 5: Lastly, tremendous amount of community outreach, all the different RINO's, all the different stakeholders, individuals, an exhaustive amount of time working with them, making sure we understand what everyone's needs are and how we address that in our plans. Then there are some basic renderings on this that you guys can look at to give you an idea of the
Speaker 5: 15% open space and the quality. The one thing I want to end with before you please ask some questions is that in working with the neighborhood in all of our projects, I feel like that we have set a new standard and a new bar in terms of the quality of the projects we're doing.
Speaker 5: But the things that we're doing for the public without actually asking for something in return or trying to get something. And you know, our goal has been all along to set this new standard so that when people come in to develop in Cherry Creek, they can point to our project and say, hey, here's what you got to
Speaker 5: do here. Here what these guys did. And so, you know, overall, long term, Cherry Creek becomes the continues to be the wonderful place it is. So with that said, if anyone has any questions, please, please feel free. If not, we we would be honored to have your support.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Joplin. All right, that concludes our speakers. Time for questions. Councilman New, you're up.
Speaker 10: Just have a comment.
Speaker 3: Oh, well, we'll come to that.
Speaker 10: Yes, I'll hold it till later.
Speaker 3: Thank you. All right. Questions. Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 0: Can you bring us.
Speaker 5: Theresa, can you bring up slide five and then Marcus, can I ask you a question real quick? So in I am rehashing you already. You already explained this and it's been explained about three times, but you've split the zone districts from C, K and CC seven.
Speaker 5: So there's a distinct line in your zone district proposed. Why is that line there.
Speaker 2: That's actually reflective of the underlying plan that was designed in the plan to step down from the heights as it transitions.
Speaker 10: To Third Avenue.
Speaker 2: So we're honestly we're reflecting the zoning envelope.
Speaker 5: In our submission. So thank you for respecting the lines that are in those local area plans. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Espinosa. Well, Councilman Clark. Oh, no sweat away, Councilman Brooks.
Speaker 5: Oh, no, I'm okay, too.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Oh, okay. So, questions, council members, Brooks says. Okay. Councilman Lopez, you have a question now. Okay. Brooks, you're so good.
Speaker 5: Yeah. Thank you.
Speaker 3: You guys mess with me.
Speaker 2: All right?
Speaker 3: You're early for this. All right. See? No other questions. The public hearing, once we know, has not closed comments. Councilman, new.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Mr. President. I just. I was involved with the zoning of this property, and it was been approved for quite a while. And the previous owner had the opportunity to opt into this zoning without having to go to the expense that my job was having to go for.
Speaker 10: And they chose not to at that time. So this is not a new issue, has been well discussed in Cherry Creek for several years and we're just very fortunate and agile and took over. This property is going to be a fantastic building and and residential building.
Speaker 10: And if you've been over to Cherry Creek and seen the house here and you've seen the first steel apartments that Matt has built, you can tell what kind of quality construction we're going to have in development. So it's going to be a great showcase and I just really encourage it's going to be a real asset to Cherry
Speaker 10: Creek, and I just really encourage all my council member colleagues to vote for this place.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman. New Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 5: Interesting. So I'm going to say this because we have a huge audience here for marijuana. My presumption not for this rezoning or not to the next one, but there was a very specific reason why I asked the question that I did.
Speaker 5: And you're going to see me elaborate more on that in the in the next zone. And so I, I commend these developers for respecting neighborhood plans and small, small area plans in defining their rezoning request to align and match with those existing negotiated plans.
Speaker 5: Because public input went into those processes. And so I'm going to support this rezoning because it honors that history. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Espinosa. Any other comments? One 2939 Madam Secretary, Roll Call.
Speaker 5: New Art.
Speaker 6: Ortega Sussman. Brooks. I Clark Espinosa. By Flynn. I Cashman. Hi. Can each Lopez.
Speaker 2: Hi.
Speaker 6: Mr. President. Hi.
Speaker 3: Madam Secretary, please. Those are very nice results. 1212 ies 129 has been placed on final consideration and does pass. All right, next public hearing we have up is 130. Councilwoman Black, would you please put Council Bill 130 on the floor for final consideration and do pass?
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. I move that council bill 130 be placed upon final consideration and do pass.
Speaker 3: It has been moved. Council. We need a second moved and seconded. A public hearing for 130 is now open. May we have the staff report?
Speaker 12: Good evening, members of council. I'm Steve Nash. I I'm the neighborhood planning supervisor with community planning and development. This is a rezoning located at 3200 Walnut. The request is arisen reason from IMX 302 to CMCs five and Cmax three.
Speaker 12: The site is located in Council District nine, right in the center of Council District nine in the northeast part of Denver. Zooming down a bit to the neighborhood, scale is located in the Five Points neighborhood, but locally known as River North or Rhino.
Speaker 12: The site itself is a full city block from 32nd Street to 33rd Street between Larimer Street and Walnut Street. The site itself is within a half mile of the eighth and Blake Station, the platform itself. And I'll also add it's within a ten minute walk of that station.
Speaker 12: Those two things don't always line up. The property itself is 2.4 acres. There are several warehouses, industrial structures on the site. The property owner is requesting to rezone to facilitate mixed use redevelopment up to five stories. Again from IMX three to UO sorry from IMX 302265 CMA x three.
Speaker 12: The applicant specifically requested to remove the UO oh to billboard use overlay. The Urban Center neighborhood context is the C for the district right. It lives within that family. Mixed the mix means mixed use and then the five and three respectively are maximum heights allowed within those districts.
Speaker 12: The existing context, building, form and scale. As you can see from the map, there's a predominantly industrial or some mixed use properties to the to the northeast and including the site itself, to the northwest and including the site itself.
Speaker 12: As you move to the east and the south, you can see a change in the land use. You can see more residential, mostly facing Lawrence Street. And so that's that's better known as Curtis Park. We'll talk more about that in a bit.
Speaker 12: Also on this slide, you see some photos. The top one is of the existing site and then the one below it is the structure across the street, across Larimer. So all listed register neighborhood organizations were notified throughout the process.
Speaker 12: Two letters were received prior to the deadline for the staff report packet. The the letter of support is on behalf of the Rhino Art District. It is addressed to Todd Triggs with Camden. He's a part of the applicant team.
Speaker 12: The letter thanks the applicants for the ongoing conversation. There's this letter is in your package if you'd like to review it in more detail. The letter requesting a delay was received from a property owner across the street, across Latimer from the civic site.
Speaker 12: The letter is addressed to Denver City Council and Councilperson Raphael Espinosa. It states there was misinformation provided and safety concerns related to the five and three story high transmission. One is also included in your packet. There are two additional letters received after the packet deadline and I believe other speakers, the applicant will will talk through those letters
Speaker 12: . Notice of receipt of application was sent out to the listed hour and it was on the previous slide. On December 16th, 2015, planning board public hearing was noticed on the first and took place on the 17th. Signs were posted on the property.
Speaker 12: Those signs included a map of the proposed rezoning from C mixed oversee mixed three planning board recommended approval with a53 vote. There was quite a bit of deliberation around precedent setting and the line where this line takes place.
Speaker 12: Neighborhoods in planning that the line from 3 to 5. To clarify it rose in planning committee was noticed on the 23rd of February and the meeting took place on March 2nd. At that meeting, there was more discussion about the transition from the 3 to 5 and more discussion about a precedent being established.
Speaker 12: Notice was set for this City Council public hearing on March 31st. Notification signs were placed on the property, including the same map that was included on the sign for the planning board public hearing. And we are here tonight for the public hearing itself.
Speaker 12: The Denver zoning code review criteria. So there favor review criteria starting with consistency with adopted plans. The sorry, the four adopted plans that are applicable to this site are listed comp plan, blueprint 38 and Blake Stationery plan it up and 29 and then the Northeast Downtown Neighborhoods Plan.
Speaker 12: Before going into this plans, I just want to remind everyone of the intent of an adopted plan that it is advisory, it provides guidance, it establishes a collective vision for the future. It provides that general guidance and strategies that tend to be a little more specific for future decisions.
Speaker 12: It depicts concepts illustrative across large areas like whole neighborhoods to support the text. We really look to the text of documents to provide guidance. Text supersedes the graphics. Graphics themselves are just there to support the text itself. Also plans allow for interpretation when making specific legal decisions for individual properties.
Speaker 12: Right. So they they're advisory. They provide guidance. Four decisions tonight. The decision tonight is legal. It is ordinance, it is zoning. It is law. So getting into play in 2000 campaign promotes infill development at sites where services and infrastructure are already in place for road map and permit will enable mixed use development at infill locations where these
Speaker 12: services and infrastructure are already provided and where transit oriented development investment is taking place. This Cemex three and C mixed five zone districts allow a variety of uses and allows for increased density appropriate for this infill site. The rezoning is consistent with plan 2000.
Speaker 12: For Blueprint. Denver, 22. This is a land use concept. It's all area of change. It's all mixed use. Mixed use calls for a sizable employment base as well as housing land uses mixed with the same within the same building development block or within walking distance.
Speaker 12: It is an area of change and as you all know, areas of change. The recommendation is to channel growth and development, whereas it is beneficial. So the rezoning is consistent with the blueprint Denver recommendations by allowing for mixed use the redevelopment at an appropriate transit oriented location, improving access to jobs, housing and services.
Speaker 12: Key defines the request to see max five and three consistent with these recommendations. Excuse me. The next slide is related to the future of three classifications within Blueprint Denver. Walnut Street is designated as a residential collector. Larimer Street is a mixed use arterial.
Speaker 12: 32nd Street and 33rd Street are both on designated locals extremism. Five zone districts proposed for the subject site are appropriate zoned districts for the mixed use and residential arterial and collector street classification through the allowance of higher intensity mixed use development coupled with the pedestrian oriented building form standards contemplated in the blueprint.
Speaker 12: Denver moving to the 38th in Blake Stationery Plan adopted in 2009. On the left, the the plan recommends mixed use employment concept plan use. And on the right there's a building heights map that recommends 1 to 3 stories along Walnut Street.
Speaker 12: This is the rezoning request to see mix three and five is consistent with these objectives through the allowance of compatible mixed use infill development that supports transit ridership. The proposed rezoning will allow for neighborhood serving amenities and requires a high, higher level of pedestrian friendly urban form than the current.
Speaker 12: I am x302 zoning. More details available in the staff report. The Northeast Downtown Neighborhoods Plan adopted in 2011. The land use recommendation is for mixed use industrial. That's the concept land use which is fairly consistent with the 30th and Blake stationary plan.
Speaker 12: The building height recommendations. This is the text from the plan that we scrutinize. The three and five storey areas are located generally between 24th Street and 35th Street. Moving from south to north, Blake Street and Walnut Street, supporting five stories.
Speaker 12: Larimer supporting three stories to aid in the transition between Renault and Curtis Park. 55 feet of chemistry with the rest of the axiom at five allows for an average height pedestrian to not perceive the five stories from the opposite side of Larimer Street.
Speaker 12: The requested rezoning is simple x five and 7x3 with a depth of 55 feet along. Larimer Street is consistent with supporting five storeys along Walnut and supporting three stories along Larimer. To aid in the transition between Reno and Curtis Park.
Speaker 12: So here's here are the maps supporting that text. So the land use map is a mixed use industrial concept, land use. And then the building heights map is five stories, five stories along Walnut Street and three stories along Larimer Street.
Speaker 12: So again, the transition from 5 to 3 stories is generally depicted on the height map between Walnut Street and Larimer Street. Much of the discussion prior to the receipt of an application was where the line takes place. Where does this transition actually occur?
Speaker 12: The alley on the site was vacated in 1973 and ever since has operated as one large site in order to meet the intent of the plan direction. We went into more detail and a lot of discussion and we actually created some 3D models to assist in determining the best transition point.
Speaker 12: So here are the models that we created to help inform us. The top image is a height transition. We're looking south only over a height transition at 25 feet. So from going from CM x five and then to have 25 feet of Cemex three.
Speaker 12: Now, if you were standing on Larimer Street in the middle of the street, you would you would see the five stories. The the middle graphic is 55 feet of transition from CM x five down to CM X three.
Speaker 12: So you've seen three, four, 55 feet along the site. If you are on Larimer Street as a pedestrian, you would not perceive you would not see that five stories. And Larimer Larimer Street would seem as if it is supporting three stories, which is the direction of the town.
Speaker 12: If you go down to the bottom graphic, that is, if you were to place the transition at the center line of the alley and you would not perceive the the five stories until you are on the close to the alley between Larimer and Lawrence.
Speaker 12: So again, we use this to help interpret the plan language. Again, if supporting three stories on Larimer and five stories on Walnut. And again, the intent of the plan language is to provide guidance for decisions that will be made tonight.
Speaker 12: And we have to interpret that that plan guidance, which is why we use three models to assist us. So the Northeast Downtown Narrows plan also recommended a few other things. And these are building form recommendations. To cite the building in a context sensitive manner, with emphasis on orienting to the street, with parking and access in the rear
Speaker 12: of the alley. Promote the use of design elements that link the building directly to the street environment, such as ground slurry activation, transparent windows, openings and doorways at the street. The recommended building for and standards are better met through CMCs zone districts than the current IMX 3002 Zoning C cm zone districts require a build to they require
Speaker 12: transparency, require street level activation and prohibit surface parking between the building and primary inside streets. CVD finds the rezoning is consistent with adaptive plans. Seth also finds that the requested zoning meets the next two criteria. The rezoning would result in uniformity of district regulations and will further the public health, safety and welfare primarily through its implementation of
Speaker 12: adopted plans to justifying circumstance. The the application reads that the land or its surrounding environs has changed or isn't changing to such a degree. That is in the public interest to encourage the redevelopment of the area or to recognize the changing character of the area itself.
Speaker 12: So adaptive plans recommend redevelopment and recognize that evolving character redevelopment in the area signals an evolution in the environs. Additionally, the University of Colorado, A-line and the 30th in Blake Station is opening in a week two weeks. The nearby National Western Center has long term plans and initial funding to reimagine itself at its current location.
Speaker 12: A preferred alternative for I-70 has been announced, and the FDA is providing more certainty for its location and configuration. And the Reno area continues to experience rapid transformation as the city's areas of change continue to grow. The next criterion consistency with neighborhood contexts, industry purpose and intent.
Speaker 12: The Urban Center Neighborhood Context calls for multi-unit, residential and mixed use commercial with moderate building heights, consistent building orientation, shallow setbacks with parking in the rear and high levels of multimodal access. The proposed rezoning will lead to development that is consistent with the neighborhood contexts.
Speaker 12: Description. And then my last slide, slide four criteria consistency with neighborhood context and district purpose and intent. SIMEX Zone districts promote safe, active and pedestrian skilled, diverse areas through building forms that activate the street edge, enhance the convenience, ease and enjoyment of transit, walking, shopping and public gathering.
Speaker 12: Cmax five applies to areas where intersections served primarily by collector or arterial streets, where a building sell one of five stories desired. Mix three applies to areas or intersections served primarily by local or collector streets, where a building scale of 1 to 3 stories is desired.
Speaker 12: The proposed rezoning is consistent with C-Max five C-Max series on district purpose and intent statements. So with CPD recommends approval based on finding all review criteria have been met. That's my staff report.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So we have eight speakers for this. I'm going to call the first five and ask that you make your way up to the front pew that we opened up for you Todd Triggs, Jerrod Carlin, Bobby Long, Ryan Seeley and Josh Katz.
Speaker 3: So you five can make your way up and Todd Triggs, you can begin your remarks as soon as you make it up to the front.
Speaker 10: Good evening. My name is Todd Triggs. I'm with Camden Property Trust 11 Greenway Plaza, Suite 2400 Houston, Texas. I've been with Camden 19 years and I have over like 20 plus years of development experience. Camden is a re traded on the New York Stock Exchange under CPT.
Speaker 10: The 23 year old company. We are long term holders of real estate. We've been in Denver since 1998. We have a handout that we gave you. If you could flip the page to, you'll see a map of the eight communities that we own in Denver with over 2600 units.
Speaker 10: And some of those properties on that list are properties that we built back in 1998, and we're still holders of. If you flip the page three. They project that we just completed and Broomfield Scott Camden Flatirons it's a 424 unit apartment community and that picture there kind of shows the detail that goes into our design.
Speaker 10: And if you flip the slide for that shows a project that we've been working on that's in another market is in California and the L.A. Arts District. We've been working on this one for over two years, and this kind of shows how we can go into an area and help design a project that's going to blend in
Speaker 10: within the community in relation to the Reno site. This site fell under two different height guidelines that conflicted with one another, one another. We met with the city on several occasions to clarify and try to resolve the building height differences.
Speaker 10: We also had meetings with the River North Arts District to get their input and are working with the city and the neighborhood group. We feel we are meeting the intent and honoring the comp plan with moving the five storey portion of the building back 55 feet off the Larimer.
Speaker 10: This is a unique site that consists of a completed block with an alleyway that's been vacated, which will allow us to do a mixed use project that'll help activate the street on all sides will be able to offer some boutique, boutique, retail, live work units and stoops.
Speaker 10: We feel we can design a building with sufficient parking that will not allow any spillover parking into the neighborhood and be able to wrap that parking garage with unit so no sides of the parking garage are exposed. Also two streets to the south of us at 30th.
Speaker 10: And Larimer, there's a block that's already zoned for all five storeys. And when redeveloped, we'll have five stories that front along Larimer. This is going to be a quality project because we are long term holders of our communities.
Speaker 10: We use higher grade finishes throughout the project, such as higher rated STC windows to help reduce sound. We use additional layers of acoustic mad to help with sound penetration from floor to floor. We use higher grade plumbing fixtures, fixtures, so we have less leaky faucets and toilets and our maintenance guys can spend more time to customer service
Speaker 10: and not having to make repairs. We also use a higher grade paint on the and we also use a lot of masonry on the exterior of our projects to give it a better look. And we also even put on a 30 year roof because we're going to be long term holders of it.
Speaker 10: Some of them. And these that we're looking to include in this project will be a sculpture garden along Larimer that will allow outdoor seating and some art pieces.
Speaker 3: Mr. Triggs. Your 3 minutes is up. Okay. Next.
Speaker 10: Appreciate your time and consideration.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Jared Carlin.
Speaker 12: Good evening, council members. My name is Jared Carlin with Norris Design 1101 Bannock Street in Denver. We're assisting Camden with the planning and landscape architecture for the project.
Speaker 2: Thank you very.
Speaker 12: Much for your time this evening. I'd like to go over our extensive public outreach that we've completed over the last 8 to 9 months. Slide five, which is the slide right here on the same packet that I was talking about.
Speaker 12: Our lines are the groups that we contacted. We spent significant time contacting all the registered neighborhood organizations within the area of the proposed development. We've met with each of them and talked with each of them individually. Based on feedback we received, it became apparent that we, if we had the River North Arts District support, that most of
Speaker 12: the neighborhood organizations would follow their lead. So we met extensively with River North over the next few months, in addition to following up with other neighborhood organizations in the area. Slide six The next page outlines that public outreach timeline going back to September River North's primary.
Speaker 12: Primary concerns were to ensure that the development fit in with the community. Thus, it needed to have strong architecture that is interesting and fits in historically and needed to add to the uniqueness of the River North neighborhood. It needed to have a mixture of uses with meaningful spaces, but most importantly, it needed to have a project that
Speaker 12: created active streetscapes. And the best part is we agree, and we're committed to all of those same things. And we worked with Rhino extensively to get them comfortable with what we want to do. We'll continue to work with Rhino and the other RINO's throughout the development process to ensure that development is something that the community in the
Speaker 12: city will be proud of. Slide seven is our letter of support from the River North Art District. We're very proud to get this. We're also pleased to be a part of a neighborhood where high quality development is demanded.
Speaker 12: On Slide eight shows some experts from the excerpts from the letter of support from Reno. Those, though, say, among other reasons, Reno's art district is very supportive for the fourth of the following elements that have been proposed as part of the development of the site.
Speaker 12: Some of those reasons are integration of multifamily apartments, live work units, retail gallery and flex space into your design to help activate the street and create a true mixed use development on the site. Provisions for meaningful retail space that are consistent with types of small routine retail boutiques, galleries, small food service establishments that are found throughout Reno
Speaker 12: because and it concludes with because of your commitment to build responsible development, the Reno art district is pleased to support Camden's request for zoning of the site. We're very proud to have their support. We've done extensive public outreach.
Speaker 12: Camden and our team are committed to creating a project that fits in well its historic, unique neighborhood and adds to the active street set streetscape scene. And to turn it over to Kephart now to go over the proposed 55 foot transmission line.
Speaker 12: Thank you.
Speaker 3: I'm sorry, sir. What was your name? Because next week we have as Bobby Long.
Speaker 5: Good evening.
Speaker 2: My name is Bobby Long with Copart Architects. We reside at 2555 Walnut Street in Denver, right in the heart of Reno. We are also assisting Camden with planning and the architecture for the project. Thank you very much for your time and consideration this evening.
Speaker 2: As a long time resident in Reno, Kephart has been at 26 and one at location for over eight years, with both an intimate knowledge and a vested interest in maintaining and enhancing the character of the Reno neighborhood. I'm going to start with Slide nine and talk a little bit of focus on the transition line and all the
Speaker 2: work that's gone into bringing us to the proposed 55 foot line. Discussions between the city planning staff, neighborhood representation and the development teams focused on how to best balance density with the preserving and enhancing the neighborhood character and pedestrian experience along Larimer Street.
Speaker 2: Conceptually, we worked hard to determine an appropriate setback for those portions of the proposed building over three stories so they would not be visible to pedestrian walking along Larimer Street. Based on a typical building height conforming to Cemex three zoning, a 55 foot setback would provide the necessary massing relief with the parapet line of the three storey
Speaker 2: portion, screening the fourth and fifth levels beyond. If we look to the screen to Slide ten, we provided a few graphics that help depict the differences between a couple of different scenarios with which to better illustrate that scenario.
Speaker 2: Slate slides ten and 11 depict what might be a ten foot.
Speaker 12: Setback along.
Speaker 2: To better indication of a five story building would appear along the street. Obviously, you're going to see a lot of it with slides ten and Slide 11 with the two stories floating well above that three storyline. Slide 12 shows the section through what we are proposing with the 55 foot setback, noting that the parapet line would conceal
Speaker 2: the fourth and fifth stories beyond. Slide 13 really starts to show that you don't see the building beyond. Finally with slides 13 or 14 and 15, we've shown it with the 125 or basically lining it with the and beyond.
Speaker 2: Please note that the impact along the streetscape is no different with the 55 foot setback or the greater 125 foot setback, which is marked in contrast to the lesser ten foot or ten or 15 foot setbacks that have been proposed before.
Speaker 2: Working with staff and the neighbors to better understand the intent of the area plan and effect of the massing. The 55 setback brings the balance of density and building height and setback, and most importantly, honors the intent of the neighborhood plan.
Speaker 2: Thank you for your time and consideration this evening. We're certainly available for any questions you may have.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Long. Ryan Seely.
Speaker 12: Good evening. My name is Ryan Seeley. I'm with Camden Property Trust. And we'll be reading two letters of support into the record today from business and property owners in Reno who were not available to attend but expressed support.
Speaker 0: For our rezoning request and.
Speaker 5: Wanted their voice to be heard. You have the two letters at the end of your packets that we handed out to you.
Speaker 12: This first letters from an adjacent property owner owns the entire length of 33rd Street across from our site. To whom it may concern. This letter is written in support of Camden Living.
Speaker 0: Zone Change to redevelop the property located between 32nd and third, Larimer and Walnut Street. I have redeveloped.
Speaker 12: And owned four properties in the neighborhood since 2007 and I'm excited to see the positive changes that are taking place due to new developments. Unsightly properties are being cleaned up, repurposed and providing new homes and venues for people to be a part of the Reno community.
Speaker 12: The streets are becoming safer. There's more light at night and sidewalks are slowly being repaired.
Speaker 0: Or, as is the case on Walnut Street, being built for the first time. I spoke with Todd Triggs about Camden's project and appreciate their efforts to activate the street level with commercial space while providing living spaces above and the fast growing.
Speaker 12: City of Denver. We need more high density mixed use developments.
Speaker 0: Matthew Palmer. Dry Ice Factory. 3300 Walnut.
Speaker 12: The second letter is also from a rhino business and property owner. Dear Denver City Council. I'm a resident of the Uptown Neighborhood and a business stakeholder in the.
Speaker 0: Rhino neighborhood of Denver.
Speaker 12: I live in an area that was once considered up and coming, and I currently work in an area that is now the.
Speaker 5: New up and coming.
Speaker 0: I write you today in regard to zoning for the Rhino neighborhood along Larimer and Walnut Street. Every neighborhood strives to be a better place to live and continually improve, but this needs to be balanced with retaining the special atmosphere that makes the area attractive for living and working as a city growing quickly.
Speaker 0: We need to provide residences for the massive number of people simply moving to our state. We need an infrastructure that can handle the current growth, but also the growth of the future with public transportation.
Speaker 12: And connectivity that succeeds.
Speaker 0: Uptown is balanced new construction and classic brick houses that lay on the side streets of Pennsylvanian pearl. Uptown House is great restaurants and unique retail, attracting people to the neighborhood and making it an appealing community. Smart design can be accomplished, but the future and the long term need to be considered.
Speaker 5: I ask.
Speaker 12: That you consider zoning.
Speaker 0: The Rhino neighborhood for at least five storey height, if not more. Being close to downtown and near a public light rail station, the rhino neighbor.
Speaker 12: Needs to be needs the smart housing of smart housing, offering greater density and attractive retail to make the.
Speaker 5: Community a great place to live.
Speaker 0: And work. Please consider my comments genuinely. As a native of Colorado and a resident Denver allow for development now that will make the area successful today and in the future. Aaron Fisher 4055 Walnut Street.
Speaker 3: Then you would see me. Next we have Josh Katz, and as Mr. Katz comes up, I'll call up the last three speakers. Ryan Arnold, Jamie Lynn, go. Laura Phelps, Rodgers. You can make your way up to the to the front pew and catch your remarks.
Speaker 5: Good evening. I'm Josh Katz. I'm one of the owners of the site. I am. My family's been in the neighborhood.
Speaker 12: For a hundred years. I've been going down to the site my whole life, and.
Speaker 5: I've seen.
Speaker 12: Significant changes along the site throughout my life. In the past 15 years or so, after the redevelopment.
Speaker 5: Of the low income housing that's to the east of the site by the Curtis Park neighborhood, that was kind of the first thing that spurred.
Speaker 12: The recent changes. And then, as Councilman Brooks mentioned earlier, there's a station at 38th and. 38 and Blake, that's opening up just a week, two weeks from now.
Speaker 5: And that will significantly change.
Speaker 12: The neighborhood again. It already has been changing the neighborhood. There's already been a lot of new development and new projects in the neighborhood. And my second point is that we chose this buyer for a reason. They weren't our highest offer.
Speaker 12: We left money on the table. We chose them because we thought they would be good stewards of our property that we've owned for think since the forties or so fifties. And we felt like they understood the as we were interviewing them, we felt that they.
Speaker 5: Understood the challenges with the neighborhood and the upcoming changes with the neighborhood.
Speaker 12: We also felt that they would be a long term holder of our of their projects, which made us more comfortable that they would spend more effort and trying to make a.
Speaker 5: Project that was.
Speaker 12: Compatible with the neighborhood. We currently use the site is light industrial. We don't have sidewalks on areas of the site. It really is incompatible with the changes in the neighborhood. It doesn't really have street level activation. It doesn't have any of these things that this new project will accomplish and will help this site with.
Speaker 12: So in summary, there's been big changes in the neighborhood in the recent past, and we chose a buyer that seems like they'll be a good steward for our property. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Famous cats. Next we have Ryan Arnold.
Speaker 10: Thanks to the council members I am the business owner in the neighborhood, actually have office space two blocks from the site. I think it's also important to note that we own all of the property to the west of this proposed rezoning and the property to the south on 32nd Street.
Speaker 10: And we are fully in support of this reason for this site. I think it's important for city council to prove this reason to continue the growth and activation of the neighborhood. Increased height means increased density near a light rail station, which then means increased street activation.