Meeting: LongBeachCC_09042018
Date: 2018-09-04

---

Speaker 0: It's just a quick vote if there's no objection with the council we have. Can you please read the item?
Speaker 1: Report from Financial Management Recommendation to declare Appropriations Ordinance for FY 19 as an emergency ordinance read and adopted is read in later in the next regular meeting of City Council for Final Reading.
Speaker 0: Thank you. This is our final vote on the budget. Can I get a motion in a second? Thank you. And thanks to our finance team and thank you to OPEC and council. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 1: Motion case.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you. Budget staff. You guys are awesome. Thank you so much for all your work. Really amazing job again. So let me let me go ahead and go back to our discussion. I think I had just I was just about to call in cuts from your rank.
Speaker 0: I think that's where we were.
Speaker 2: Yes.
Speaker 0: So cut somebody, Ringo.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mary. And congratulations to us all for tonight's success in getting this merger through. And it's it's a wonderful feeling. It's always good when you have a balanced budget and a good, strong one like we have this time around.
Speaker 2: But getting back to the item at hand, I have to agree with my colleagues in terms of where we're at with this this issue. The most important one for me is that we have a measure on the ballot that's coming up.
Speaker 2: And the last point that Councilmember Gonzalez made, it's one that really concerns me, is that given that we have a ballot measure, I'm already coming before the voters and we're addressing pretty much the same issues here as an ordinance.
Speaker 2: What would impact would. I'd have a city attorney. Okay. Okay. Okay.
Speaker 0: Mr. City. Attorney, sorry you had a council question.
Speaker 2: I'm just following up on that council member Gonzalez's issue regarding that. We already have a ballot measure coming before the voters and Iseman and the city council bringing this before the body as a ordinance for you to draft.
Speaker 2: And you have gotten you you admittedly have gotten it. Yes. Got it Friday or saw it yesterday. Whenever is there. So is there is there an internal conflict that is is being put before us here in terms of having to deal with a an ordinance or a request for you to do an ordinance when there is something
Speaker 2: already on the ballot that addresses a lot of these issues. Clearly, you're correct that this ordinance does address an item or a part of an item that is well before the voters on November 6th. I don't know that, and I haven't done any legal research on this, but I don't think that that's a legal conflict or where
Speaker 2: there is some sort of ethical issue that it raises for the council in considering an ordinance such as this. The the issue here is a panic button applied to all hotels and motels. You have a measure on the ballot that would apply to a certain criteria of hotels, and it has other items included in that initiative that
Speaker 2: go beyond what this proposed ordinance would cover. So there is a difference and there's a significant difference. If you were trying to pass something identical, I think you could even do something like that if you wanted to. But whatever, as the mayor mentioned, whatever the initiative had in it, if it was stricter, it would control.
Speaker 2: And even if it wasn't stricter, if the initiative passes, it may control anyway, depending on how that initiative is written. Some citizens initiatives allow councils to take action that are more restrictive than what the voters passed or more in conformance with what the voters passed.
Speaker 2: In others, you can only amend it or change it by a vote of the people. So I, I don't think that there's that legal issue that you're bringing up, whether it causes confusion or not, obviously, that that's always a concern to.
Speaker 2: But I don't I don't think that that would be an issue, a legal issue that we would be challenged on or there would be a success. We could always get challenged on everything, but they would be successful on that.
Speaker 2: Well, as you said, you know, there may not be an ethical issue here, but it certainly doesn't pass the smell test for me because we like to there's been a process the there was a petition that was distributed.
Speaker 2: Over 40,000 people signed on to the petition. It's going to be on a November ballot. And I think that this measure that we have here today or this proposal that we have here today basically is to a great extent circumvents what's already been out there in terms of the other people that send out a petition expecting to
Speaker 2: vote on that in a in November. And then we have this ordinance here that if we were to adopt before the vote, would basically make that WW null and void, although there are some considerations there about if one was more restricted and the other the more restrictive one would take over or would take precedence.
Speaker 2: Is that correct? Or only as to if. I think the assumption here is that Measure W will pass. If it doesn't pass, this ordinance obviously would be in place and protect or would require all hotels to have to provide panic buttons to their employees if measure WW does pass.
Speaker 2: It's it seems to be more restrictive in certain areas as identified by some of the speakers, and that would apply to those hotels. Yeah, from my understanding, what I saw on the on the draft is that it's basically hotels with 100 rooms or more and it doesn't address the the the smaller hotels or the or those that
Speaker 2: are that are as as a Councilmember Richards put forward in the nuisance hotels those that are they're smaller than or less than 100. So the question comes back, I mean, how much vetting was done before bringing this item forward today in terms of discussing this or sharing this with the other hotels or those at lesser of 100
Speaker 2: rooms? And although there's still some definitions about. Airbnb and these other types of of businesses that that have these these opportunities for people to to get a room at at a at a at a lesser rate or more of a personal experience being in a smaller location.
Speaker 2: You know, I still have to to have that information as well, that that that type of of vetting and charito. How much are those types of facilities used and what the impacts are and how the how do they get cleaned?
Speaker 2: I mean, how I mean, there's got to be some contracting that goes out for these facilities, for these other optional lodging experiences that people people have. I'm you know, I'm not. A lot of these are rentals. People buy them and then rent them out and then get people to get in there to clean them.
Speaker 2: And and and the complaints that I've heard and this is an issue that that I grew up and down the coast where there's a facilities or there is Airbnb opportunities out there that just get abused, especially along the coast.
Speaker 2: People have parties. They in fact, I think a councilmember asked and brought it up a few a few weeks ago about, you know, the these big houses that that go multi rooms and people, fraternities or or wedding parties or whatever, rent them out, trashed the place, trashed the neighborhood, and provides another opportunity for for somebody to get
Speaker 2: hurt, especially when they're going in there to clean it up. So, I mean, this just this all this isn't make any sense to me at this at this point, at this juncture of the process of getting the the measure on the ballot and then having the voters vote on it and then confusing that whole issue, whether it's
Speaker 2: true or not. But it will be that what the city already has something like adopted something in this ordinance where I and voted on it. So I mean, that's a concern I have. And I'd rather that we let the process continue that we receive and file this.
Speaker 2: I'm not making the motion right now, but I mean, I think we need more discussion take place. Has the other ideas queued up as well? So I'm not going to making a motion at this point. But the bottom line is that there's still more information that we need.
Speaker 2: And there was we didn't that 60 days or 30 days that we requested for a physical study to come back, we haven't gotten there yet. So we really don't know what the impacts are going to be on this.
Speaker 2: And especially when we're talking about law enforcement being involved in this, we're talking about getting some city staff also involved in this. And we just haven't had a physical study on it. So I'm very, very reluctant at this point to to support this motion.
Speaker 0: Councilman Richardson.
Speaker 9: Thanks, Mr. Mayor. Okay. So a few questions. I think the response to the first question is going to the timing. Whether I need to ask the question is not so. Councilwoman Pryce making the motion. I mean, the author of the of the motion.
Speaker 9: So are you open to modifying this so that we can get it passed tonight.
Speaker 6: Depending on the modifications? Absolutely.
Speaker 9: I've heard at least three people talk about the most critical thing is doing this at the same time as an open election that we just certified a couple of weeks ago. So my question to you is, are you willing to allow staff to begin doing research?
Speaker 9: And then we actually, like turn this into a feasibility motion and then we begin the process of the ordinance once we have results from WW.
Speaker 6: No, I'm not, and I appreciate you asking. And although I'd love for us to reach some sort of consensus on this, and I'm amenable to whatever modifications people want to make, I am submitting this for consideration as an ordinance with the limited purpose of establishing panic button policy to address the public safety concerns that have been raised
Speaker 6: at multiple council meetings.
Speaker 2: Okay.
Speaker 9: Then I'll ask the rest of my questions. So so to be clear, is this a motion? This is not a motion about feasibility. This is a motion to direct staff to create an ordinance.
Speaker 6: The City Attorney. Yes.
Speaker 9: Okay. Mr.. ACTUALLY, Mr.. City Manager. When's the last time you saw this recommendation? Was the first time you saw this recommendation? Are you familiar with this?
Speaker 2: I thought this morning. I know Mr. Modica got it on Friday afternoon.
Speaker 9: Okay. Now, when I bring an idea to city council, having worked here for quite some time, typically I get a little pushback when a little a little pushback or staff may suggest, hey, would you mind making this and we've had this conversation.
Speaker 9: I don't know how many times would you mind making this a feasibility? Give us some time to come back and tell you how we approached the issue. Did you have that? Do you have that same concern here? And did you express that the council to Councilman Price upon seeing the item?
Speaker 2: No.
Speaker 9: So you don't have any concerns about timing or meeting it?
Speaker 2: Well, things come up on supplementals and once it's on a supplemental staff is kind of pushed out of the process at that time.
Speaker 9: So you don't want more time. You want to move.
Speaker 2: Forward with this one? We serve at the will of the council.
Speaker 9: Nice. All right. I look forward to a, you know, consistent answer moving forward on items like this. Okay. So speaking of supplemental. Councilwoman Price, why was this brought on supplemental?
Speaker 6: Well, there's.
Speaker 7: Really.
Speaker 6: Gosh, a multitude of reasons. Like I said, this item was drafted by me in November of 2017, but I decided not to bring it at that time. I felt compelled to after the last hearing that we had to bring it.
Speaker 6: I will. I was told that next week's meeting was going to be canceled potentially, and I'm not going to be here on the 18th. So for me, this was the right timing. And and while I appreciate your recommendations on process and I could learn certainly a lot from my colleagues on process and sometimes some of us, you
Speaker 6: know, we learn from one another all the time. What I would say is, is highlighting the deficiencies in the process is that's one approach. But I'd ask that we focus on the content. Is the content objectionable in regards to whether the city manager would ask for more time?
Speaker 6: My understanding is that the police department is already doing the recommendations that are listed here because they reported on that in October of 2017 at the public safety meeting. And I did provide a memorandum for the full Council highlighting their presentation that Deputy Chief Conant provided to the Public Safety Committee meeting in October of 2017, highlighting what
Speaker 6: they're doing, the panic button item that it would be up to the hotels really well.
Speaker 9: I asked about why he brought it on Labor Day. I don't want to deviate too much since I have the floor from that that question.
Speaker 6: Okay. Well, you let me know when my answers are beyond the scope of your question.
Speaker 2: I will.
Speaker 9: Think so. In my opinion.
Speaker 2: In order to have a full, fair.
Speaker 9: Conversation, I try to try not to utilize supplementals unless there's, you know, a deadline, a time frame that we're looking to meet, particularly when there's a three day weekend, a Labor Day weekend, in order to give a just a fair opportunity to the council to think about it and come prepared for the meeting.
Speaker 6: No. And so.
Speaker 9: Yeah. And so, you know, obviously that wasn't presented. So I guess my question is, it doesn't matter on this issue. Does it matter to you to have consensus on the council or is this something that you're very comfortable moving forward on?
Speaker 9: A split vote? A very divided vote?
Speaker 6: You know, I would always love to have consensus, but on this particular issue, I think that's been a challenge from the very beginning for us to get to. So although I would love to have consensus, I think we have to be realistic and I think people feel very strongly about this this item.
Speaker 6: You know, I know that when we had these discussions in September of 2017, I, I talked with the folks that were advocating for it and I said, I really would love to support this. Is there any way we can bifurcate it and just address the panic button issue since there's no nexus and there just wasn't a willingness
Speaker 6: to do that? So I want to be realistic in the answer to this question is yes. I would love to have consensus. Do I mind a split vote? Sometimes I think you just have to do what you think is best, even if it means you're not voting with everybody else.
Speaker 9: I get it.
Speaker 4: So in the way you envision this.
Speaker 9: Most ordinances like this that reach out to both the smaller business, the larger businesses, they've had a period of outreach. Did you envision some outreach on this?
Speaker 6: I did, and I believe there was some outreach done with the motels. I don't have too many of them in my own.
Speaker 3: Diversity or.
Speaker 6: I believe by some of the council members. But like I said, we can certainly implement a phasing for the motels that gives them the time to I would venture to guess most motels are not going to want to pick up an additional cost for something like this because they're small business.
Speaker 6: Probably a lot of hotels aren't going to want to do this either, but it's really about public safety. And sometimes when we establish policies like we do to help the environment or whatever the case may be, we will phase in because it's the right thing to do what.
Speaker 3: The.
Speaker 6: Policy is, the right thing to do. We can phase in the implementation to address their concerns, but this is the start of the process of drafting an ordinance and again of all of your comments about process are absolutely noted and I don't disagree with them at all.
Speaker 4: Great.
Speaker 9: So in terms of the outreach, so with this outreach, be in favor of the ordinance or oppose the ordinance, did you envision any educational materials to go out as a part of this outreach?
Speaker 6: No, I did not.
Speaker 9: Okay.
Speaker 3: I would just mean.
Speaker 6: Like written material.
Speaker 9: Anything. Any material for outreach?
Speaker 6: No. I mean, I don't I don't think so. It's not a very complicated issue. Hotel workers are afraid of being in a room with a customer and a panic button. What I think is a.
Speaker 2: Little more.
Speaker 9: Flex than that.
Speaker 3: Well, yeah.
Speaker 1: With regards to panic button. Yeah. Okay. Tell me what aspects.
Speaker 6: Of the panic buttons you'd include on an information.
Speaker 9: Well, I mean, first I would conduct outreach and like you mentioned on the the health. Reach the homelessness. 50 Gay Outreach. I think that those materials should come back to council so we can review outreach materials just like.
Speaker 5: Oh, but I.
Speaker 6: Was saying I wouldn't do any written materials. I'm saying.
Speaker 3: What is your letter written?
Speaker 9: I think that's even better. I mean, what I think a fair thing to do is to be honest about the fact that the way this has been presented with, you know, on Labor Day weekend, no outreach or interest to reaching across the aisle to a member of the council who's been engaged in the issue.
Speaker 9: I mean, that would have gone a long way just to help bring the council together. Then expressing at the very beginning of this that you're not willing to talk timeline. It appears to me that this is more politically motivated than actual policy conversation.
Speaker 9: And then there is the appearance and you know, city attorney, I'm not sure if city attorney or if PC would have issues with this, but I do have a problem with conducting outreach during a public election, conducting outreach.
Speaker 9: So I would say that all the outreach and all that should not happen until after the election. I think that's the simplest way that you can clear clean this up. All right. Number one, we just came through a circumstance all measure M when three members of the city council were accused and then, you know, you know, went
Speaker 9: away with three members of the council, were accused of using public resources during campaign season to campaign for one way or the other on a measure. Now, PC cleared it, but it became an issue.
Speaker 4: And frankly.
Speaker 9: We need to learn from those experiences and operate and behave a bit differently during election time. The last thing I would say here is that this is a real opportunity to turn the page on this issue. And the way that we do that is maybe by taking a step back from our egos and honestly saying, is this
Speaker 9: what's best for the city to engage in this conversation right now? Because it's not. I personally believe that the public has going to begin a conversation citywide. The integrity of that conversation, I think we should be. We're already conducting a feasibility study or a financial impact analysis.
Speaker 9: I think it's very simple to to ask city staff, while you're going through this process, begin to prepare for should we be in the position to implement WW then or not implement a WW one way or the other?
Speaker 9: We want to be able to pick up the conversation right then and move it, move it forward. And I think that will do it. I think that with unanimous support, he'll be less political. And then people, people could feel comfortable not thinking this politically motivated or unethical or whatever it is.
Speaker 9: And so that's my honest heartburn about this. I wish we didn't have to talk about it this late. And I wish that, frankly, I wish you had a lot more sunshine to it. And I wish that we could just leave the council meeting feeling good.
Speaker 9: But it seems like we always end on this issue.
Speaker 0: Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Councilmember, let me go back. Let me I know we're going back to Councilmember Pearce in a minute. Let me maybe ask a couple questions that could fill in some of the questions that have come up.
Speaker 0: I know there's other questions, but just so that I'm clear, too, and I know that when we go through an ordinance process, regardless of when it's brought up or what have you, there is a process that happens and that that basically is an ordinance gets presented and put onto the agenda.
Speaker 0: Then it goes to the city attorney. The city attorney spends an unspecified amount of time, depending on whatever amount of time you need for the issue that's in front of us. And then that issue, of course, then comes back to the council, and then there's got to be two separate votes post that.
Speaker 0: And so I know there's some conversations happening about like the timing or when it's going to when it's something going to happen or not happen. But I also think we have to also all recognize that we don't know the timing because a lot of is dependent on the city attorney's schedule.
Speaker 0: And when he would bring the initial draft of that back to the body. And then at that point, the body has to begin having conversations on the initial draft of the ordinance. And so I just say that they know that there's been some conversations about the timing.
Speaker 0: And I mean, I know that the election was brought up a few times, were, you know, 60 days away from that. We're close. And so I'm not sure that anyone here on this body should be convinced one way or another that somehow this is going to happen for sure before or even after that period.
Speaker 0: And this is my assumption it could be wrong. But just just from a first and just ask the city attorney putting aside the multiple readings that would have to happen at the Council for for an ordinance like this.
Speaker 0: I mean, how much minimum time would you need just to bring back the first ordinance back and you guys doing your work?
Speaker 2: I, I don't think we could come back excuse me before 30 days, at the minimum. There's been a lot of I've taken a lot of notes here and some legal research that we have to do in addition to the other work we're currently doing.
Speaker 2: So, you know, we could try and get back 30 days, but I don't see it coming back before then.
Speaker 0: So are you saying that at a minimum you would need 30 days?
Speaker 2: Yes, at a minimum.
Speaker 0: Okay. And I just say that because so now we're we're into the beginning of October and then there still has to be two conversations of this body that's we're talking about minimum here. So at a minimum, it's early October.
Speaker 2: That's if everything.
Speaker 0: Goes that's if everything goes perfectly with your office. And once it's minimum once we're past minimum of October or now we're in mid or late October where this is coming back to the council, depending on on where it is.
Speaker 0: And then there has still has to be two separate conversations. And if there's and if there's research that's gained or a discussion that that that that is different at one of those conversations and we have to restart the whole process.
Speaker 0: So I only say that because I think this is just my personal take, that regardless what the Council did tonight, it seems to me. That too. For this process to be completed even by that date would be very difficult.
Speaker 0: That is just my my reading of this. And if someone disagrees with that, let me know. But I think it'd be very hard. I have never seen an ordinance would go this fast on on a topic like this.
Speaker 0: And so the agenda item doesn't say it has to be back like next week. It says start the process of the ordinance. So if there's disagreement on that, I'd like to hear that. But that's the way I'm at least interpreting what's in front of us is there is no time limit for this to somehow come back before
Speaker 0: the election. So I just want to put that out there. I know there's other people that are that are queued up, but I would think that to do an ordinance that is I mean, listen, this is this is an important issue.
Speaker 0: I think there's not anyone on this body that doesn't recognize this as a huge, important issue that's in front of us. And I agree with with with Councilman Price. I think it is going to pass when when it's in front of voters and in November as well.
Speaker 0: And so and so, I think that this will take some time regardless of the vote tonight, if that's the direction that council goes in. And I want to just add that to the mix as we're having this conversation.
Speaker 0: So it. Mr. City Attorney. Right. Is that sound accurate or my off here?
Speaker 2: No, I think that's accurate. And then if everything went perfect, obviously it doesn't go into effect until 31 days after you sign it. So you're probably into the year somewhere in there. Okay.
Speaker 0: Okay. So let me keep going through the speakers list. Councilmember Pearce.
Speaker 5: Okay. I'm not going to continue to harp on the well, I'm going to say one last thing about the process. I think the comments of, yes, I have told you that I would support panic buttons and all motels.
Speaker 5: When I said that, I fully expected that we would partner on something because this policy, I spent five years of my life writing this policy. And so to be able to to draft up a different type of language around sexual assault in hotels disregards the work and the effort that we've done.
Speaker 5: So I appreciate the efforts. I in no way do want to hold back from panic buttons reaching the housekeepers in these hotels. So I first want to say, outside of a policy standpoint, we have worked with Rose Park Neighborhood Association, AOC seven and many of our neighborhood groups around getting access to not the ideal panic buttons that
Speaker 5: I would like to see in hotels, but something similar. And I have no problem with using my divide by nine monies to go out there tomorrow and make sure that we have those in our motels while we draft this policy.
Speaker 5: So I in no way want the conversation to be that we didn't support getting panic buttons to housekeepers immediately, because that has always been my my effort on the conversation around the around the policy language that's drafted. There was a lot of effort put into thinking about those issues that I brought up earlier, the policy questions.
Speaker 5: And so, you know, those those were just ones off the top of my head. Again, I think the challenge with the timing was that even if we had even if it was a regular week and not Labor Day week, we would have had a day to do this, whereas we had our budget meeting today and we saw
Speaker 5: how smooth that went. So that's what happens when we juggle big policy discussions very last minute. So I'm in fear.
Speaker 3: That there's.
Speaker 5: More language than these four questions that I have, which is subcontracted workers notification of guest retaliation language and hotel workers ability for legal remedy. Would you be opposed to what I mean? I mean, yeah. Would you be opposed to taking the language from Claudia's law that only pertains to sexual assault safety and asking the staff to act
Speaker 5: in the city? Attorney to draft an ordinance for hotels of 50 rooms or less using just that language instead of reinventing the well because we have already done that work.
Speaker 6: I would not be opposed to that, although I don't have that language in front of me. I will tell you that in respect for the work that has been done, again, I've said from day one, if we could separate, I said, I see no nexus between several of the items that were in the provision that was submitted
Speaker 6: to us. And if we could separate the public safety piece, I would have voted on it over a year ago. But what I did, because I know that the work that was done on this was extensive, was tried to include a lot of that same language.
Speaker 6: So if there's something that's missing out of here that you'd like to see included, totally open to that. So I guess slightly, yeah. I mean that just I don't have the ordinance in front of me, so I don't know what the components would be, but it.
Speaker 5: Was all kind of rushed on it. So I think instead of doing it line by line is asking the city attorney to use the language in Claudio's law, not only around. The sexual assault protections. But the issues that I mentioned here, who's covered that there's legal remedy for them, that it's the same thing minus the square footage
Speaker 5: that's included in WW.
Speaker 0: Think I I'm hearing just so I'm clear, I think Councilman Price is is is fine with that. I'm seeing her nod to Mr. City attorney. I think the big ask right now of Councilman Pierce is if we were moving forward, could we just take the language that's currently in the in the WW ordinance and just use that
Speaker 0: for the under 50 motels that are laid out in this item? Is that.
Speaker 5: Correct? That's my first question, yes.
Speaker 0: Okay. That's that's number one. Is that possible as you draft the ordinance, you could take that direction.
Speaker 2: Certainly use that as the starting language. Yes, it would eliminate the entire motion except request city attorney to draft an ordinance for panic buttons. Right. Okay.
Speaker 5: Great. So the second.
Speaker 6: Although I would like the provisions that ask Long Beach PD to include information on their website and everything other than item three to be included in there. So establishing regular outreach to hotel and lodging workers to make them aware of their rights and the process and directing them to have more prominent information on their website and that
Speaker 6: ensure that language access policy is followed in regards to the dissemination of information should be included.
Speaker 5: Okay. And then the second part that's important to me is the feasibility, the fact that we've spent years working with the largest hotels, but we have not done that work with the small mom and pops that everything from.
Speaker 5: Yeah, of course they probably won't be supportive, but it's a very different feasibility conversation versus a, you know, company that can spend 60 K in a election should they choose. So I think that there is a different feasibility conversation that we need to have and that that needs to happen well before we see our first draft.
Speaker 5: So while you say it might take 90 days, what does a 60 day engagement process look like with hotels? I mean, with hotels under 50 rooms? Is that something that staff could.
Speaker 0: Well, I think I mean, correct me if I'm wrong, I don't think they're the motion is to direct the city attorney to prepare the ordinance. And I think the city attorney's office in their preparation of the ordinance, whether or not they conduct outreach.
Speaker 0: And in this case, I think it'd be difficult in the amount of time. But whether or not they conduct outreach, I think is is up to you and your office. Right. Depending on what information you need to craft the ordinance.
Speaker 2: I wouldn't be doing outreach. No, this would be staff. I mean, if the council wants me to direct write an ordinance, I'll write the ordinance and bring it back if if you want to do some sort of outreach, I don't have the ability to do that.
Speaker 5: I recognize that that's a different item. So I guess if there was a substitute motion to do outreach for, he says, yes, okay, I'm trying to interpret this. If there is a substitute motion to spend 60 days doing outreach before the to these entities before city attorney drafted it.
Speaker 2: That if I may if there is a substitute motion something like that and we've done that on other items, right, that there would be some sort of a study or outreach.
Speaker 5: Feasibility study.
Speaker 2: To craft the ordinance. We would wait for that information to come back and then craft the ordinance if and that's we've done it that way too, that's acceptable.
Speaker 5: So I guess I'm working backwards because yes, I want the language from WW. I think that makes sense. But I also think that that makes sense without us having any knowledge about how these motels and smaller hotels operate.
Speaker 2: So and I if I could add, I agree with you, I think that the the intention of the outreach would be to we would use that as a starting point. But maybe some of that language doesn't make sense or maybe it needs to be tweaked and then it would come to you as kind of a package.
Speaker 2: They'd have the outreach and you'd have the draft language, and obviously the council could put all that language back in or change it back or do whatever it is they want to do to it when you get it, when we finally get something in front of you.
Speaker 5: Thank you for that. And I guess my last point and then I'll hear from my colleagues would be understanding because, you know, we've got, like I said, many small motels or hotels. The cost might be a bigger issue for them versus the Marriott of the world.
Speaker 5: And so if that is one of the challenges that come up from our engagement with them, just like we did with polystyrene, what does that phase in program look like? Is there some type of city funds that we can use to try to get them panic button sooner?
Speaker 5: Or like what? What can we do to try to get those in their hands sooner rather than later and that the city plays a role in that. So. I did some I made that substitute motion. That's right. It was 130.
Speaker 3: Okay.
Speaker 0: Okay. That that's a that's a substitute motion.
Speaker 5: Do I have a second? Is that what it says? Ask. Emotion motion over here. My laptop's hiding it. Sorry, guys.
Speaker 0: Okay, that's a substitute. That's a substitution. Do we want to see it? That's if we can first. If we can maybe fold that into the the agenda item. May it may not be possible in the item itself. I think the request and I could be wrong.
Speaker 0: I think the request is to have some outreach, to ask to direct or direct this. So we're still directing the city attorney to begin the process of importing the ordinance. But before it comes back to the council that staff do some outreach to those that are being that would be that would be impacted by this and that
Speaker 0: that that outreach inform the city attorney in his crafting of the ordinance as it comes back and that and that when it came back, we would have that information in front of us. Now, I'm not sure if that's possible or acceptable to obviously the make the motion.
Speaker 0: I think that's what I heard that's a friendly I know she substituted I was trying to see if that was possible to do as a friendly if not I think that's okay but just want to.
Speaker 5: Tell you what Charlie's not.
Speaker 3: So.
Speaker 2: Mayor. Members of the council. No way. Well, I'm not sure that's possible, but the way I just understand it is that the substitute motion would request staff to conduct outreach, slash study of this issue. 60, 90 days of the study.
Speaker 2: Then I would start preparing the ordinance 30, 45 days. I was I when it would come back. I mean, that's true, as I understand.
Speaker 0: That's right. In the spirit of I think what I heard earlier, I was trying to I was trying to see if there's possible to get to a place where we could, you know, build them on the same page.
Speaker 0: So, you know, maybe it's not possible. I was just I was just putting it out there as something for us to consider as we as we move forward. Councilwoman Price.
Speaker 6: You know, I'm going to actually I do have a few comments, but I'm going to queue up at the end because Councilwoman Mango was the second year of the original motion, but we went to public comment and didn't go back to her.
Speaker 6: So I'm going to turn it over to Councilwoman Mongo and then I'll come back up.
Speaker 5: Thank you. And when I was cute, I was laying on the back rail. And unfortunately, little Samantha has been kicking me like crazy, and it has been just really tough. But so I appreciate you saying that. When Councilman Price approached me about this in September 2015, I was a supporter of it at that time.
Speaker 5: And I appreciate all the work that many councilmembers have done, and I think that everyone's work is valid and we've all had very different approaches. Many remember my comments related to working with the Defensive Tactics Training Academy that works with L.A. County Sheriff's Department and providing free training for a lot of those hotel workers.
Speaker 5: Additionally, that came out of a discussion from a leader in the motel chain industry whose wife serves as president of one of the motel chain associations. And so that outreach did start back in 2017. While Councilwoman Price approached my office last Monday about signing on to this item and I was amenable at the time, I'm still amenable
Speaker 5: , and I know that unfortunately it is a holiday weekend, but with her, not with the potential of the 11th being canceled, her being not available on the 18th, me going into pre labor on Friday and thinking I might be having a baby sooner than later and wanting to be a part of this discussion.
Speaker 5: We're here and it is what it is. So with that, I was not very supportive of the friendly to strip out the language that Councilman Price had stated she'd be open to from Councilwoman Pearce. So I'm going to make a substitute substitute to the original language submitted and signed on by me and some other colleagues.
Speaker 5: I feel that the 2017 outreach that was started including but not limited to talking to some of the motel associations. I appreciate that outreach is important and necessary. I appreciate that process could be improved. At the end of the day, whether I agree with it or not, a group of people came before us and asked for a
Speaker 5: button. And whether it's today or 30 days from now or 60 days from now or through a vote, there's. An opportunity to put it through and give them what they've requested. And for that, I hope that we can have a united vote and.
Speaker 5: Provide what was requested, and I wish it would have happened in 2017. I wish the vote could have been bifurcated before. I wish that there were times when I was outreaching on my own that I would have been supported by the original community in committee.
Speaker 5: On several occasions in meeting with different advocacy groups including but not limited to unite here. I asked for support accommodation support of minor changes to watch every single time. Any request, even if supported by hotel workers, was told to me that this is the way it is in other cities and and this is what we're moving forward
Speaker 5: with and get on board or watch out. And unfortunately that was not great. And I wish that this could have been a better example of what we should do. But with the circumstances and the timelines that we're up against, I'd just like to almost everyone who's on the speakers list has already spoken.
Speaker 5: I hope we can call for the question shortly and not repeat ourselves, because otherwise I might be having this baby at this dais any time now. So if we could appreciate that everyone has a different perspective and I appreciate the work that everyone else has done and so forth.
Speaker 5: There has been outreach. I know it's not the same kind of outreach, but not every item that comes to council has had that. And any group that's wanted to weigh on it on this has had at least four council meetings to do so and so for that, I appreciate everyone's input.
Speaker 0: Mayor, I was going to go to the city attorney really quick.
Speaker 2: Thank you. I'm not sure that that's a proper substitute. Substitute. You just repeated the main motion.
Speaker 5: The main motion was stripped.
Speaker 3: So the.
Speaker 5: Original.
Speaker 2: Motion. There's original motion, then a substitute motion?
Speaker 5: No, the original motion. Then there was a friendly amendment that stripped it completely.
Speaker 2: There was just there was never a friendly that was accepted. It was a substitute motion to add the study. 90 days or so for a study, then draft an ordinance using the language from W.W. as a substitute motion.
Speaker 5: So what was the friendly.
Speaker 2: Decision made by.
Speaker 5: Because I thought Australia was accepted without the second approval.
Speaker 2: So.
Speaker 5: So what I will do is my substitute, substitute motion is that we pass the item as originally submitted with an addition of a one year implementation opportunity for motels.
Speaker 3: I can right.
Speaker 0: That that.
Speaker 3: Is a timely point.
Speaker 2: Of clarification. Does that include number four and not include number four?
Speaker 5: Not include number four? Thank you. Thank you.
Speaker 0: That is a substitute. Substitute. Councilman Gonzalez.
Speaker 6: Yes. And I'm going to defer to Councilmember Pierce.
Speaker 5: I withdraw my substitute motion.
Speaker 3: It's not on the floor. Dang it.
Speaker 2: I think that there's a subset of you can't. Which are you got to you got to go work back of this now from the. We've got to.
Speaker 0: You have to work from that. You have to work from the subs on the floor. Okay. So I.
Speaker 1: Well, she had him.
Speaker 0: Just listen to let me just say one more thing as we're moving forward. I'm hoping that as we're moving forward, that we're out, we're still focused on getting the getting the best outcome as possible. And I think that there's been some I think from those who have made the motion, they accepted some things and there's been some
Speaker 0: good conversation. And so I don't want that to get lost in our frustration at that, that we're all tired and everything else. And so let's just keep let's let's please keep going. And we do have the motion on the floor which they subsub, which is essentially the main motion striking number four with a one year implementation.
Speaker 0: Okay. So that is that is currently the motion that is on the floor. And if obviously you're still able to make fun of this, if you would like, but that is the motion that we will be voting on.
Speaker 0: Councilwoman Gonzalez.
Speaker 6: Okay. Think we got to handle a little bit. So I would just like to reiterate the need for the impacts. So whether that's the legal implications, I know you had mentioned we need to do a little bit more legal research, which I think would be important given the circumstances of what this may or may not look like
Speaker 6: , perception or not, what whatever that might be. When do you think you can get that back? I know you had mentioned.
Speaker 5: Maybe 60 days or.
Speaker 2: We would work as hard. You know, we can try and get this back as soon as possible. I'm not sure. I mean, obviously, I understand the timing, but that it's a public safety issue. But generally speaking, a lot of these ordinances have been challenged.
Speaker 2: And so we'd want to do some research on what it is we're doing. And now that we're back to this language, there may be some questions in this language we're going to have to research also as a substitute.
Speaker 2: Substitute motion is being considered. So we will try and get something back to you in 30 days, but it may be a little longer than that.
Speaker 1: Okay.
Speaker 6: And thank you. And then I think the only other thing that was my main thing, because I know we had address the public safety issues, but I would still like just to report on. But I believe Councilmember Price mentioned that there was a two from four sent over to us based on the Public Safety Committee meeting.
Speaker 6: Did that include information about public safety resources and what we're currently doing with hotels? I just want to make sure that's clear. Yeah, and it wasn't a two from four per se. It was just I do a summary when the public safety committee meets.
Speaker 6: I usually do a written summary for all the councilmembers, and that's what it was. And yes, it was Deputy Chief Conant and it's available on audio because we listened to it today just to go through what was discussed.
Speaker 6: But Deputy Chief Conant talked about the outreach that they do with hotels, the data in regards to calls for service and, you know, some of the collaborative partnerships that they were creating around public safety, not just at the hotels, but in the downtown area, including the hotels.
Speaker 6: Okay. Thank you. I still you know, I'd love the information to come back first, but I don't know that I can support this today, but I would just like more information.
Speaker 5: I think that's a big deal. So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilmember Ringo.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Aaron. We have a lively discussion here where things that I brought up obviously before is that I think this is going to be confusing to the electorate. They did a petition. They put it on the ballot.
Speaker 2: It's going to be coming up as WW in November. What we're doing here is basically, like I said earlier, circumventing that vote that the people have already put there. Given that, would it be possible? And and just to to paraphrase what we done before.
Speaker 2: We talked about a month ago about making a study to determine what would be the. Fiscal impacts of such an ordinance to the city. We haven't gotten that yet. So would the makers of the motion to make such a motion be amenable to holding off on?
Speaker 2: Processing this audience now until we get that fiscal impact report back to us and then go ahead and request a city attorney to proceed with any kind of a one ordinance. It's a friendly. Basically saying, can we hold off until we get the fiscal information fiscal report?
Speaker 5: I appreciate the option. But I would just say that in in echoing the comments of the original motion that there's no need for a delay. I mean, we know that there's going to be a fiscal impact. We've said that when when previously it was commented on, it was said not to be of a value at that time
Speaker 5: . So I'll only repeat that. Thank you anyway. But I, I, I was kind of serious about my call for the question do I get a second on that? But I thought I had heard the but I could have been wrong.
Speaker 3: Usually the one who says yes.
Speaker 0: Well, I mean, if there's a second on that, we've got former speakers.
Speaker 2: Mr. Anthony, was there a second on that? Yes. On a call for the question? Yes.
Speaker 3: He came back and asked me why it didn't work.
Speaker 2: That's not debatable. We need a two thirds majority to call for the question.
Speaker 0: Okay. So so we're going to go take a vote and call for the question.
Speaker 2: Yes.
Speaker 0: It's okay to two thirds vote. Yes. Okay. So are we are we voting on it, you people?
Speaker 6: It is lots of people. Okay.
Speaker 5: I will send my call for the question.
Speaker 0: Okay.
Speaker 5: I hope the speakers list won't be extended.
Speaker 0: Okay. So we're back to Councilor Richardson a second.
Speaker 9: Thanks, Mr. Mayor. So can you elaborate on the one year implementation? What what is that?
Speaker 5: So what I am hearing from my council colleagues is that they believe that outreach to the motels needs to be more extensive and that if this came back to council, it would take a while to know whether the requirements.
Speaker 5: And so I'm just creating a one year implementation so that it gives city staff the option to help ensure compliance.
Speaker 9: Okay.
Speaker 5: And but if you felt a shorter period was appropriate, I'm open to it. You do more outreach to that group.
Speaker 9: But I personally just think there's a there's like a good government model for crafting ordinances. When the American Planning Association wars left and right, I've worked on many of them myself, argue with planning about who should get the trophy just saying.
Speaker 9: And most of them, frankly, have same format. Either they start with some kind of a pilot or the award winning ones. They start with some kind of pilot. They all have outreach that informs the crafting of the ordinance.
Speaker 9: I just think that this is there is no reason, there is no valid reason to push this through without conducting that process. And I just think I appreciate your feedback. And I believe that outreach process should just not happen at the same time as the election.
Speaker 9: I don't think that's an and I'm.
Speaker 5: And that's why I said a year instead of six months, so that the outreach can start after November.
Speaker 9: Okay. So you're saying outreach starts after November? Great. That's what you're saying. Yes. All right. So no outreach between now and November. Great. Okay. There's a number of issues here. So we're passing this motion without evaluating the fees, without putting the flexibility of staff to evaluate the feasibility.
Speaker 9: At 2 a.m., the day after Labor Day. Those are those.
Speaker 5: Respectfully, sir, we have to discuss this since 2017. And I appreciate.
Speaker 9: Respect, respectfully, and nobody knew this was coming.
Speaker 0: But make sure Councilor Richardson has the floor. So let's look. Continue.
Speaker 9: It is it's I'm just stating the obvious. Here is 2 a.m. is Labor Day weekend. And I still have a I still have not heard a legitimate reason on why we're rushing rushing this through. If the intent is really to if everybody on the council just expressed that they're okay go and panic button the citywide and it's
Speaker 9: all about process then there's no threat for this being killed or shut down to where after people aren't at council meetings or whatever. And it's a little less politically charged with the election season. And that's why I have a major problem with this.
Speaker 9: It has nothing to do. I just want to be clear. It has nothing to do with expanding panic buttons. The other thing is I think we do need to actually talk to motels. I'm engaged with talking to a lot of motels was a different conversation is completely different.
Speaker 9: It's about, you know, cracking down on just outdated uses and all that. And I want to have a, you know, a way to just think through how it all integrates. Right. And I just don't think that this flexibility is being given here tonight with this.
Speaker 9: So, Councilwoman Margo, I appreciate the steps that you made in that direction. But just fundamentally, I just can't I can't I can't support this, but.
Speaker 5: I appreciate that and I respect that greatly. Thank you. And. This reaches everyone. And so other hotels who are prepared and have the resources would be implementing them sooner. And if that saves even one potential assault, then that's a win.
Speaker 5: So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Price.
Speaker 6: Thank you. So I appreciate all the comments tonight. I think it's been a great discussion. I will say, Councilman Richardson, while I understand the awards and I know you've had a lot of experience in politics, but I just want to make sure we're clear.
Speaker 6: We're not really trying to win any awards here, but we do have a public safety issue that was brought to our attention. And in September of 2017, this council stated very clearly that we were all in favor of panic buttons when those of us who voted against it voted against it because we believe there was no nexus
Speaker 6: between some of the provisions and panic buttons. Our colleagues allowed the implication to be had that we did not support panic buttons and they allowed person after. As leaders of this Dyas, as colleagues of ours and leaders of this issue, they allowed people to come to the podium and say that we did not support safety for women
Speaker 6: . I have handled I cannot tell you how many rape cases and sexual assault cases in my career. I will not go on record as being accused of not supporting panic buttons. So tonight I am supporting panic buttons loud and clear.
Speaker 6: You don't have to vote for it. I understand all your reasons. Put policy process. I mean, I'm sorry. Not policy. Put process aside. Put, put all your. I value your opinion. Honestly, I do. I learn from you all the time.
Speaker 6: You're absolutely right that the process could have been better. And there's not a day since September 2017 that I haven't thought I should have brought that panic button earlier because I drafted it in November 17. Jack knows he's here.
Speaker 6: I circulated it to people in November of 17, but people said, Oh, you know what, the issues behind us, let's not bring it back to council. We don't want to have long meetings. And I said, okay, okay. But then when person after person came in here and said, You don't care about the safety of women.
Speaker 6: That to me, that's unethical to sit back and allow your colleagues to to be accused of not caring about public safety when they've devoted their entire career to it. Just put yourself in the shoes of someone else. It's all I've ever done.
Speaker 6: It's all I've ever done. And to have people come up to the to the podium and say, I don't care about public safety and have my colleagues who are supposed to be maybe not allies in everything, but at least supporting each other in this fishbowl that we all sit in, not stand up and say, you know what
Speaker 6: , it's not about public safety. Maybe that she doesn't like this aspect of it or that aspect of it. But tonight, this is about voting in favor of panic buttons. Because if there is. A woman that gets assaulted and the next few months or in the next week or whatever, I don't want to be going on record as
Speaker 6: someone who voted against panic buttons because I didn't and I'm not going to tonight. I respect and appreciate everyone's vote. You have the right to have your own opinion, but really, let's try to separate the election from this issue.
Speaker 6: And the issue tonight is who's going to go on record as supporting panic buttons. So thank you.
Speaker 0: Guys. Were having a discussion at the council. Take us to one place. Councilor Pearce, I think is not here. Vice Mayor Andrews.
Speaker 4: Yes, thank you, Mayor. And I echoed those sentiments for my councilwoman, you know, Price, because the fact that an individual said to you and I would never go on the record is never, ever, you would never, ever any city.
Speaker 4: And I would never vote for the safety of females, because here the individual has buy, you know, have three daughters and one mother. So you would never, ever see me city and I would not talk about the safety of females.
Speaker 4: So you can definitely put me on the record as saying I would definitely be supportive of panic buttons. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. There there's a motion and there's a motion and a second on the floor. Members to escort and Castro votes.
Speaker 2: Did you do public.
Speaker 0: Places for Suzy Price's mission?
Speaker 3: Well, that's.
Speaker 1: Motion carries.

Speaker 0: Okay. Thank you. Next item, please. Was about him. 27.
Speaker 3: Yeah.
Speaker 1: Report from Economic Development Recommendation to execute all documents necessary for interim property maintenance and management of city owned property commonly known as community hospital district for advice.
Speaker 0: Marriages between you could happen as a matter of emotion. Okay. Do we want to come off really quick here? Let me let me let Councilman Andrews. I'm sorry, Councilmember Super now. Okay. Can I got a conference when I first got you?
Speaker 4: Okay. Okay.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Cosmo. Super now.
Speaker 4: Okay. Thank you. I appreciate my colleagues support on this item. So get us through an interim period at community hospital and I appreciate your support.
Speaker 0: Okay. There's a motion in a second. Is your public comment on this on this item? Were you seen and please cast your votes.
Speaker 3: Thanks for being here. You get that? So I would just. You know.
Speaker 0: The vote go up yet? The vote, the record about that.
Speaker 4: Oh, yeah.
Speaker 0: Okay. There's a I'm not sure where we're at with the motion, but there's a we're voting. There was a motion and a second.
Speaker 1: Motion carries.
Speaker 0: A motion case. Well, now we're at the second public comment period on any items that are not in front of the agenda, seeing none. Let me go to any new business. Anyone queuing up? No. See in the business.

Speaker 0: And so that would be the the option of the council that they'll be discussing a little bit later today. So we do have some for presentations and I know questions as well. And so we will begin with our harbor department presentation and then we'll go into a wider department presentation and we'll go into questions on on those
Speaker 0: items. And so, Mr. Weston, to turn this over to you and then introduce our presentations. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Council members, these are final two.
Speaker 2: Presentations from departments tonight. These are non city manager departments, the water department.
Speaker 4: And the harbor department.
Speaker 2: So first offering to go with the executive director.
Speaker 4: Of the harbor department, Mr. Mario Cordero.
Speaker 10: Good evening, Mr. Mayor, and members of the City Council. I'm pleased to be here tonight to present the Labor Department's budget for fiscal year 2019, which is 982 million and $272,000. But before I commence, let me acknowledge people who are here from the poor language, beginning with the president of the Harvard Commission, President Tracy Gosk, who who's
Speaker 10: in the audience, and also newly appointed deputy director Noel Hasegawa. Director of finance Sam Jumblatt, and two members of his team, Don Kwok and Jason Broad, and also from government relations, Tamara Ashley and Nina Turner. Operational excellence. That is environmental sustainable.
Speaker 10: When you look at this slide. I suggest to you that we're so proud as a city. They have a port. Which from a national and international perspective excels in excellence, that it's environmental sustainable. In addition, I'm here to tell you that our financial state is very strong and we are making investments necessary to deliver the services, the
Speaker 10: projects and administration to enhance our standing as a world class seaport and a leading gateway for the Trans-Pacific Trade. And as you may be aware, the Trans Pacific trade route is the most important trade route for this country.
Speaker 10: No one even comes close second. And our mission here at the Port of Long Beach is to further the economic standing of not only the city, but the region. And the state of California. The proposed budget. Includes here our capital program, which you'll see almost $700 million or 70% of our budget is earmarked towards our capital improvement
Speaker 10: budget. Three programs in particular, you'll note, in yellow account for 80% of our capital spending for fiscal year 2019. This investment and these initiatives on the part of the poor Long Beach will continue to improve the industry leading service.
Speaker 10: That we give and enhance or sustainability. That, again, is part of our brand. The bridge to everywhere. As you know, we're almost two thirds completed this iconic bridge. A conduit of international trade. We'll be a landmark not only for the city but for the state of California.
Speaker 10: It will be the second highest cable state bridge in the United States this year. We're allocating 150 more, 154 billion excuse me, $154 million program for the completion of this new bridge for the upcoming fiscal year. A second very important capital improvement project is the Long Beach Container Terminal, otherwise also referred to as our Middle Harbor Redevelopment
Speaker 10: Project. This will be a include a gold building or gold led led gold statue building. The further the green port brand that we have at this port, it will be a 311 acre terminal with the capacity of moving 3.3 million containers.
Speaker 10: And for context that terminal alone after completion. Would qualify as the sixth largest port in the United States. We have now allocated for fiscal year 2019, $182 million appropriated towards phase three of this mega project. And as you know, we're all looking forward to next year.
Speaker 10: For the completion of the new headquarters for the poor Long Beach as part of our partnership here at the Civic Center. And we'll be making our final payment as part of this fiscal year 2019 budget with regard to the commitment by the poor Long Beach.
Speaker 10: So next year, rather than driving to City Hall from East Long Beach, I'll be walking across the prominent and I'm looking very forward to I'm sure I could speak for the commission or staff to be part of the Civic Center family and come back to downtown Long Beach.
Speaker 10: As you can see, our operating revenue. In terms of source funds is our biggest source of funds. Again, to put this in perspective, 75% of our revenue comes from our container terminals. 75% of our revenue. And thus our emphasis as to why we have a capital improvement project at the tune of $4 billion at this port.
Speaker 10: We are projecting additional debt of 300 million face value for fiscal year 2019 as part of our 600 million. We expect to assume over the next three years. This, of course, would be gauged at the time of issuance based on our need at the time.
Speaker 10: The Harbor Department does enjoy a strong a Double-A rating with a stable outlook with our respective credit agencies. In fact, our annual audit this year, in the spring of 2018, US from KPMG came forward before the Commission and indicated analysis was the best audit for the poor Long Beach going back 15 years.
Speaker 10: So we're very proud to continue not only our brand as a green port and our leadership in sustainable development, but in addition continuing the financial strength that this port has always exhibited. So there is the source of our funds.
Speaker 10: As I indicated, the operating revenue is a strong for for fiscal year 2019. We're projecting 389,605,000. As you know, we had record year for fiscal year excuse me, calendar year 2017, looming 7.5 million containers. We expect a 5% growth for fiscal year 2018, which would be a 3.3. 5% increase as compared to fiscal year 2018.
Speaker 10: So with that, again, I'm very optimistic with regard to how we continue to lead, not only in terms of a leading container gateway, but also in terms of how we continue with our financial strength and the revenue that comes from this great port.
Speaker 10: Here are some of the highlights, as I referenced with regard to capital expenditure again at the tune of $695 million. And again, 70% of our budget goes to our capital improvement project. Our operating expenses are mostly due to one time items.
Speaker 10: And of course, I'm very pleased to stand before the council and specifically referenced the Tidelands transfer for the fiscal year, which will be approximately $20 million. That is the highest ever for a fiscal year for the pro Long Beach.
Speaker 10: We do propose ten additional full time equivalent employees as part of this budget. Greenport policy. As many of you know, in 2005, the poor little Amish decided to move forward. Very leadership role with regard to the what I believe the shot that was heard across the world, the maritime industry as being the port that branded itself as
Speaker 10: a green port. Yes. In 2005, they may have been just words, but as you know, there were five basic principles that we will protect the community from harmful environmental impacts of port operations. With regard to emissions that we would distinguish.
Speaker 10: Number two, the port as a leader in environmental stewardship and compliance. Number three, that we will further and promote environmental sustainability development. Number four, employ the best available practice practices to implement technology to reduce environmental impacts. And lastly, and just as important, become engaged with the community both in terms of our community nonprofit involvement and not only
Speaker 10: with the non-profits, but with the educational institutions. Now, in 2005, those may have been just words, but let's look now in terms of what was accomplished. The accomplishment in terms of reducing emissions is here in terms of the empirical evidence.
Speaker 10: Before you know it, 97% reduction in sulfur oxides, 88% reduction in particulate matter, 56% reduction in nitro nitrogen oxides, and of course, 8% in greenhouse gases. And as you know, with our most recent initiative, the Clean Air Action Plan of 2017, we are not just about reducing emissions.
Speaker 10: We are about eliminating emissions with the goal of being zero emissions in terms of cargo handling, including by year 2030 and zero emissions in terms of the transportation mode and moving containers, more specifically, trucks that by 2035, we will have zero emission trucks all throughout this gateway.
Speaker 10: So this also indicates itemize is for you are community involvement in terms of our community engagement 1.3 million budgeted in fiscal year 2019 as part of our commitment for community investment grants and of course our sponsorships with regard to the various nonprofit entities at the tune of $1 million.
Speaker 10: So what I've had presented here in a very concise manner, I can represent to you that not only is this the greenest port in America, and not only is this a leading gateway in terms of being part of the nation's largest port complex.
Speaker 10: Yes, we invest our money to make sure that we continue on the road of operational excellence. But at the same time, we also have a very appropriate investment to our community engagement. And we live by what we said we were going to do in 2005 with regard to a definition of what a green port is.
Speaker 10: So with that, I'm very honored to present what I just presented to the Council, and I'm open to any questions that you may have regarding our budget. Also available here is again the way the finance director, Sam Jumblatt.
Speaker 10: If there's any questions, I may not be able to answer. So thank you so much.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. Cohen. So any questions? Yes, Mrs. Price.
Speaker 6: Thank you. Thank you very much for the presentation. And thank you for taking the time to brief us individually in advance of the meeting. And congratulations to the new deputy executive director. So welcome to your new role. I did have a question.
Speaker 6: There was a front page article I want to say on Saturday, maybe about the tariffs and how they might impact port business and port operations. And that's something I thought was would be something interesting for us to talk about.
Speaker 6: I'll throw that out there. Possible suggestion for the Tidelands Committee, maybe, because I know that's a topic of a lot of discussion in terms of the tariffs and what impact we think they might have. So it might be something worthy of a longer conversation in a different venue.
Speaker 6: But but while I have you here, I wanted to.
Speaker 10: Thank you for your question. And Councilwoman Price, in fact, that's probably the most often questioners pose before me and this commission in the last several months by the media. That is the impact of tariffs and this trade war that we're engaged in.
Speaker 10: But before I give you that answer, let me first say that the poor lobbyist recently did announce the appointment of a new deputy directors. One of them is here to see Nino Hasegawa. The other deputy director was unable to be here this evening and that's Ric Cameron.
Speaker 10: So going forward, the poor language is moving forward with a new model, which I think represents the requirement given how much we've grown not only in terms of our cargo, but in terms of our staff and the required staff that's necessary to continue with the stellar operation of this port.
Speaker 10: Now, to your question, which I think is a great question. The port alone, which has joined with the California associate of port authorities to assure concern with regard to the tariff trade issue. So preliminarily, at the present time, we have in place the first step of this administration's movement on tariffs, which is at the tune of $50
Speaker 10: billion in cargo value. So right now, our staff had done some preliminary figures that if in fact, we'll continue to monitor this, there hasn't been any significant impact at this point. However, later this year and for sure by the turn of the year, we're going to be in a better position in terms of what that impact is
Speaker 10: , particularly with regard to the second half of calendar year 2018. Preliminarily, we believe that impact may be anywhere in the neighborhood of 7 to 10% in terms of cargo value. So we are concerned about the the tone and the involvement of this trade war, particularly the application of tariffs of even more of a serious concern is whether
Speaker 10: or not the administration will move forward with an additional 200 billion in tariffs with regard to cargo value. If we move to that point. I suspect that the American consumer will feel the impact on that for sure, because when you move to a 200 billion level tariffs, you are going to see an impact on a number of
Speaker 10: consumer goods that are the day to day purchases of the American consumer. So I still maintain a sense of optimism that given that the potential impacts of moving forward to that final step will be, in my mind, very serious to the supply chain and international trade here in the United States, as well as our global partners.
Speaker 10: Again, I still have a sense of optimism that the parties will come to a meeting of the minds of some point, because history will tell us that prior attempts on moving forward with tariffs are actually a short term option.
Speaker 10: And when we step back and look what those long term impacts are. So that was a great question, and we'll continue to. Monitor those impacts.
Speaker 6: In light of that. Has the port adjusted perhaps its budget for federal advocacy?
Speaker 3: Yes. Okay.
Speaker 10: Well, number one, we're going to continue with the high level of federal accuracy that we've had, both at the federal level and at the state level. Now, I will say this. I'd like to also bring further context to this potential impact.
Speaker 10: And I'm talking about the 200 billion in tariffs. Keep in mind that the global recession that commenced here in 2008, 2009 and lasted for a few years, there was serious impacts at the Port of Long Beach with regard to not only the movement of cargo during the global recession, but in terms of the revenue growth.
Speaker 10: But nevertheless, as I've showed in these slides, the Harbor Commission decided to move forward with the road map that they believe is very important. And I'm talking about their continued commitment to the Capital Improvement Project and their continued commitment to the principles of the Green Port Policy, and their continued commitment to make sure that we move forward
Speaker 10: with both environmental stewardship and operational excellence. So if you go back and assess in the last ten years that trauma of the global recession and not only the poor Long Beach had, but the global community, I think what's coming ahead, if in fact it does come.
Speaker 10: I, I can stand here before you and feel very optimistic that we will continue with our leadership, continue with our priorities. And I don't believe that even in the worst scenario, will approximate the kind of impacts that this port underwent and withstood post the global recession.
Speaker 10: So again, I'm trying to give some optimism to the potential scenarios, but I think one thing for sure as it relates to this budget, it's a very good budget. I think our finance director will support the fact that our ten year forecast at the Port of Long Beach is a very good forecast.
Speaker 10: And again, with that, I entertain any more questions that the council may have.
Speaker 6: For sharing that. And and again, I just wanted to take the opportunity because you were here, but there's probably not the best venue to have this discussion. But it's a really interesting discussion because as we watch national politics and national policy changing all around us, there's bits and pieces of it that are impacting our daily lives, of
Speaker 6: course. But because we're a port city, this, this the tariff issue is something that could impact us very dramatically economically. And it's the single most common question I get from folks outside of the city when I tell them I'm the long on the Long Beach City Council, they ask me about how our port is doing in light
Speaker 6: of the tariffs. So I appreciate you touching on it and I look forward to talking with it further, talking with you about it further.
Speaker 10: Well, I think I represent that our commissioners are very much on this issue and are doing everything they can to make sure that we move forward in a way in which not only is sustainable, but again, monitor these issues to minimize any potential impacts.
Speaker 10: And last, I would say, just for your information on this issue, on this question, on Friday, I will be in Sacramento, along with other executive directors of the state of California and other port directors in the state of California to address this issues in the governor's office.
Speaker 10: So I think, again, we're doing everything we can to raise consciousness to this issue.
Speaker 4: Yes. Thank you. Is that the way to me? Yeah. Thank you. Mr. Good. Mr. Sweat?
Speaker 5: Yes, Mario and the whole port team. I've just really enjoyed getting great briefings from you all, not only around the budget, but any time, whether we're talking about Metal Harbor or our cleaner action plan. I just want to say how much I appreciate you all.
Speaker 5: I think that you've done a great job with the port. Looking at how we restructure, looking at how your community engagement is. Today, I had the pleasure of being in L.A. for a press conference with other city leaders throughout California, and we were talking about our efforts to green our communities.
Speaker 5: And so I was able to really highlight all the efforts that we've done here at our port. And so looking at this budget, I think we had our briefing. I want to echo how exciting it is to have the largest Thailand's transfer, how exciting it is that you guys are making your final payment on the building and
Speaker 5: your commitment to the Civic Center facility. And so I don't have any other questions. I just really it's nice not to have questions, but just to say good job and I don't have to ask questions today because I have so many briefings with you guys.
Speaker 5: I really appreciate it.
Speaker 10: Well, thank you so much, Councilman Pierce. And I also like to add that and represent to this council that for this year we had a pretty rigorous process at the Port of Long Beach with regard to our budget.
Speaker 10: I want to thank the Budget Committee that consisted of President Tracy Gaskill and Commissioner Liang Guzman. And as well as the the three other commissioners, Bonnie Lowenthal, Frank Colonna and Wayne Bynum. It's a it's a very engaged commission.
Speaker 10: And I think it's as I like to say, a lot of times you have the perfect commission for these times in terms of the skill set that these commissioners bring and the challenges that we have. And, of course, the objectives are formidable.
Speaker 10: So it's very blessed to be in this position for sure.
Speaker 5: Yeah, I think Long Beach as a whole is really blessed to have such a great team. So and I definitely I also want to echo Councilmember Price's comments. I know we've got our Harbor Commission Titans meeting tomorrow, but down the road, I do think the terrace conversation is a fascinating one, that we could just have a community
Speaker 5: meeting to kind of unpack that a little bit. So thank.
Speaker 10: You. And as Councilman Price indicated, we'd be more than happy to appear at a at another setting to specifically engage on that issue.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilmember Councilwoman Gonzalez.
Speaker 6: Yes, thank you, Mario. And your team again. Commissioner Gorski, thank you so much for your work on the commission. I think this year is phenomenal for us to look back at and see that we've had record numbers. A few things that we want to thank you on behalf of First District residents, Pier B, which I know was
Speaker 6: a huge issue, but we got through it. But I think it's for the long term. What we see, it's going to be exponential for our city and for our port cleaner action plan, of course, as Councilmember Pearce had mentioned, and Gerald Desmond, which is huge for the connection to our city and to the port and just to
Speaker 6: our friends across the harbor. So I just want to thank you for those efforts. Tomorrow, we do have a Harbor and Tidelands meeting coming up, I'm sure, as you're aware. So thank you in those efforts as well. I know that's a long discussion, but we appreciate it.
Speaker 6: So thanks again for everything.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Councilwoman.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilmember Gringo.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mayor. And I want to thank you, Mario, and your staff for the wonderful work you guys are doing, especially your community engagement. That has been very helpful, been very fruitful in terms of what you've been able to provide for the community.
Speaker 2: Your 10,000 Trees program is just moving right along. It's been a great program and it adds to the greening of Long Beach and in regards to being able to plant those trees all over the city. You mentioned in Slide 12, you mentioned the the successes of our Clean Air Action Plan and have been the representative that represents
Speaker 2: the the area where the impacts of port movement and goods movement is highest. And it was somewhat mentioned already by my two predecessors in regards to the Clean Air Action Plan. Could you give us just a high level synopsis, summary of what the Clean Air Action Plan does in regards to how we are working towards knocking down
Speaker 2: our particulate matter, NOx and our greenhouse gases? Sure.
Speaker 10: As I referenced and thank you for your question, councilwoman. Councilman, I apologize for that.
Speaker 2: All right. Could put.
Speaker 10: Out. They were pretty good. So. Great question. As I referenced earlier, the great thing about what the problem is is doing in partnership with the city in terms of implementing what the city would like us to do is we are moving forward with zero emission and it's just not words right now.
Speaker 10: There's a partially 13% of cargo handling equipment that's already electric at the poor Long Beach. We have going to the point of our advocacy. I would like to thank our government relations people in doing a great job with regard to making sure that we be the beneficiaries of grants at the state level and federal level.
Speaker 10: So I think these grants are very important to further continue the endeavors that we have for the 2017 Cleaner Action Plan. So with that, I think you're seeing now that even though our goal is 2035 for all sewer emission trucks, I really believe I'm very optimistic that we're going to reach that goal a lot earlier.
Speaker 10: There's already demonstration projects in terms of electric trucks and hydrogen fuel cell trucks, zero emission. Recently, if you follow one of our recent press releases, we have applauded Toyota. One of our terminal operators gave them kudos with regard to their decision to move forward with a project under the Toyota Logistics Services name of a hydrogen fuel cell
Speaker 10: power plant and a power station. So this is what's come in here at this gateway, particularly at this city and at this port. And I'm very excited that I think you're going to see the benefits of this, your emission policy, a lot sooner than what we think.
Speaker 10: So right now, we presently do have demonstration projects at our terminals that is working with our terminals with regard to putting in place. Technology that's there or here, it's not ready for the market. But we are demonstrating these projects right now, the terminals anywhere from all electric yard hustlers to, again, equipment.
Speaker 10: And of course, in the transportation mode, you're seeing how this port taking the lead from this council and the state of California are moving forward with, I think, a great story in terms of zero emission transportation.
Speaker 2: And again, I want to thank you for your efforts on that mean I think you as a commissioner back in the early 2000 started this whole green, green, green port movement.
Speaker 10: You know the great story on that councilman and you're and councilwoman Granger going back to my original you reference those were the days of a councilwoman and longer who had also a great say on this. But I will say this I think all that has been accomplished by the staff that we had at the port.
Speaker 10: Let me see. If you look at the staff that we had, a poor Long Beach, these young people, the Rick Camerons, the Heather Tom Liz, who were here back in 2006, are still here at the port. And for them, 2017, it's just like a no brainer in terms of not only the skills that they bring, but in
Speaker 10: terms of these guys are going to accomplish. All on that point. I really want to thank the staff here at the Port of Long Beach who have been here all through these endeavors and and will be here to the end, because, again, it's a great story, not only for the city of Long Beach, but it turns out
Speaker 10: absolutely represents you. You go anywhere in the nation. And when you talk about the poor Long Beach, the first thing that response, people are going to say, yes, that's right, the green port. You guys are leaders in environmental initiatives.
Speaker 10: So with that, I want to thank not only the leadership from past city council back in 2005, but in terms of our staff who put this together and ran with it.
Speaker 2: I'm looking forward to our continuing successes in that area.
Speaker 10: Thank you. Thank you, gentlemen.
Speaker 0: Thank you. I come from a supernova.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thanks for a great report. And my colleagues had mentioned the record transfer amount, all the support you do for the community and also the harbor tours. That is just an awesome program that you have and my residents really appreciate it.
Speaker 4: I also want to say thank you to the board and congratulations on the naming of the Kodak Co deputy executive directors, Ric Cameron. And you forgot to mention that Noelle is a fourth District resident. So that means. Oh, that's right.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 10: Okay. I will say that when we talk about the community engagement that's been referenced to, you know, the $1.3 million in community grants, the $1 million in terms of the nonprofits, I can't think of any other Port in America that has that commitment.
Speaker 10: That's more than just words. It's it's it's you look at our budget and when you look at the budget of any entity, your budget represents your values. So on that, Mark, I think we're doing excellent and I will represent to you that the President ask you that's one of her main priorities for this budget is to make
Speaker 10: sure that we continue at every opportunity, consider expanding this type of engagement. So I would like to again make sure that those kudos are given to the commission who set this policy and.
Speaker 0: Vice Mayor Andrews.
Speaker 4: Yes. Mosquito, I think. I don't think you need any more accolades because, you know, when you came back, everything just exploded. And because of fact, a lot of that is because. I definitely think so. Because the fact that your work is that you have behind you, those individuals are fantastic.
Speaker 4: But we just came back on our cruise and I thought I went to Hawaii. Those individuals that work with us, I mean, the sixth District, we thought we were really in heaven. Thank you, guys. And thank you for allowing us to have our community to be able to go through that.
Speaker 4: Thank you, guys, again.
Speaker 10: Well, thank you, Cosmo. And thank you for your support. You know, I think to the T every council person here has supported these initiatives at the Port of Long Beach and and in our one on one meetings on the budget.
Speaker 10: I really appreciate it on behalf of the Commissioner myself, your ongoing support because again, this is the greatest port in America and proud to be part of the greatest city in America.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Richardson.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I want to just chime in and say what a fantastic job you are doing. The reputation of the port is strong. You know, when I'm invited to participate in different leagues of, you know, cities or SAG, you know, folks have a great year.
Speaker 9: The Port of Long Beach has a great reputation. Your staff represents us really well. It's gang and all these other areas. So hats off to the government relations team and I want to continue to work with you on issues related to economic inclusion.
Speaker 9: And we've had ongoing conversations. But being the economic driver, we are. We have an opportunity to really be an asset, a national standard for economic inclusion. The way that we've done on cleaner action plan, in the way that we're doing in community reinvestment.
Speaker 9: I think the next big thing for the Port of Long Beach is really making a mark and being a national standard on economic inclusion. But thanks a lot and continue your your your fantastic leadership.
Speaker 10: Thank you, Councilman.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Austin.
Speaker 8: Thank you. And thank you, Mr. Cordero, for the great presentation. I want to thank you and your department for all of your amazing contributions to the city of Long Beach, but to our national economy, I mean, our port of Long Beach.
Speaker 8: There is no way that you can have a have a conversation about our national economy without having a conversation about the port of Long Beach. I want to also take an opportunity to congratulate your newly appointed elected president, Tracy Gorski, who is also a district resident.
Speaker 8: Congratulations. And Noelle also followed you and worked with you for many years. Congratulations on your recent promotion. And yes, hats off to the government relations team and your entire organization. I want to specifically thank you and the port of Long Beach and the port commissioners for your investment and continue to communicate our commitment to our community through
Speaker 8: your community grants fund. And I would just invite you to opportunity just to talk a little bit about how the Port of Long Beach is giving back to the city of Long Beach and how the poor Long Beach can continue to give back through the grants application process.
Speaker 8: Because I see a number of folks in here who are, I think, in organizations that could benefit from some of the great work that your department is doing so well.
Speaker 10: I'd like to thank the staff. I would like to thank the community for the advocate advocacy that we witnessed here going back years ago. Because, again, for those of you who remember back then after the implementation of the Green Port policy in 2005 and people were questioning people in the industry and other parts of the country were
Speaker 10: questioning greenport policy. And the problem is, what does this mean? There was a lot of hysteria about that. We were going to lose business as a result of environmental initiatives. But I think when you see the numbers here at the Port of Long Beach, we proved quite to the contrary.
Speaker 10: So I'm very proud to be here now, years later in this position. Not only it's not about words, it's about facts. And I think with that, back then, I remember saying that for the poor at Long Beach, it's not about the benefit to the few, but it should be the benefit to the many.
Speaker 10: And it goes to your point, councilman, councilman, that this budget reflects that. You know, back then we were fighting for 100,000 in community nonprofit allocation and then it went incremental to it was always a debate. But because of the leadership of commissioners that came after me and the now exemplified by our present, our current president Tracey you
Speaker 10: guys, you know, you have 1 million just on nonprofit commitments to the community, 1.3 community grants as a result of emission reduction assistance or protection protection against harmful impacts. I mean, add that up 2.3 million, including the 20 million transfer to the city.
Speaker 10: You're talking about $24 million that this port contributes as a department of the city to the city. So I think we should all be proud in terms of what this port stands for, because as we move forward, there are many who continue to question these environmental initiatives like zero emission.
Speaker 10: But I will also answer to those and say what I said back in 2006. We feel confident of obtaining objectives, these objectives. It will be done. And last I will say, for our friends in the in the industry who are very much many supporters of this, none of these demonstration projects would happen without our partnership with the
Speaker 10: Marine terminal operators and the stakeholders. So I think it's a great story for for this port, the city and the state of California.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Mr. Cordero, I want to just add a few a few words. We move on to the next presentation. I know I've I've heard the obviously the budget presentation before, so I apologize for having to step to step out.
Speaker 0: But I wanted to just congratulate you and your executive team for another great budget that it really speaks to where the up the board the port is growing green initiatives community investment and a focus on infrastructure. You probably already mentioned this, but you know, we have the most robust port infrastructure program of any American port and we're
Speaker 0: very proud of that and very proud of the record cargo and the reductions of emissions. And so thank you for all that. I do want to thank a president who Gosk you for her leadership. And you referenced something that I think is important to uplift, which is the the amount of funds that are going back into the
Speaker 0: community as it revolves around both on the mitigation side and on the granting side have actually dramatically increased in the last year, year and a half, thanks to the leadership of the board, particularly an initiative that President Gorsky led on the board, I think beginning about two or three years ago when you first started work on it
Speaker 0: , which looked at how do we increase the amount of community funding that we're doing on an annual basis. So that was something that was important to me in appointing President Garcia, and she has carried that through. And I think, you know, just to trace you, Tracy, and just the other board members just want to thank you.
Speaker 0: I think the community is seeing tens of millions of dollars more back into directly into the community because of the actions of the last couple of years. And I know that that will continue. And so I'm very grateful.
Speaker 0: I know the council is very grateful that our new the way we allocate community resources is really stepped up. And so just thank you to the board for that and of course, for just the leadership in what you do every every day.
Speaker 0: So thank you to that to the harbor department port of Long Beach. Thank you. And we'll move on to the water department.
Speaker 10: So thank you so much.
Speaker 0: Absolutely.
Speaker 8: Thank you. That was a great presentation by Mario. But if you talk to his wife, Gloria, she'll tell you the best run city department is the Long Beach Water Department. So everything that people love about the Long Beach Water Department, it starts with those people behind you, the men and women of our Long Beach Water Department.
Speaker 8: We serve 90,000 Long Beach customer accounts. We're stout 24 seven for water and sewer services and emergencies and for emergencies. We handle 10,000 emergency calls a year on the water side. Long Beach's water meets are exceeds all federal and state water quality standards.
Speaker 8: You may not know, but we have a full service laboratory over at the water treatment plant over on Redondo, and those scientists and technicians perform 70,000 water quality tests a year. And something new that we started this year is we've started testing the drinking fountains at the Long Beach Unified School District Schools K through 12.
Speaker 8: We tested for 41 schools this year. We had to take a time for summer vacation because we have to wait until school's in session and we'll finish the remainder of the schools this year. We also offer that service to private schools also.
Speaker 8: So if any private school would like testing of their drinking fountains. We'd be happy to do so. Sustainability. Long Beach Water Department is famous for its lawn to garden program. So far, we've replaced 6 million square feet of lawn in Long Beach, and with that Long Beach using about the same amount of water today as we did
Speaker 8: in the 1950s, despite a 40% population increase. Capital needs. We're going to obviously continue our reinvestment into our pipeline system. We're going to develop and rehab local water wells and storage tanks. The more way we can get locally, we can avoid buying expensive imported water.
Speaker 8: And then we're going to transition. Long Beach Water Department's 90,000 meters to smart meters. And we'll get into that in a little bit later in the program. On infrastructure. We have 2500 miles of water and sewer pipelines to maintain.
Speaker 8: Since 19 9091, we've replaced over 225 miles of water main pipeline. And this year, we're going to be reinvesting $31 million in pipelines in CERP work. What we do is we focus on our most vulnerable pipeline. And so in the early nineties, when we were experiencing close to 200 main breaks a year, we started focusing on cast
Speaker 8: being pipeline in the city. And you can see the results in that chart behind you by focusing on that and using our money wisely. We've had an 8% drop in main breaks in the past 25 years. This something near and dear to your heart.
Speaker 8: Quality control for street impacts. Every time we replace a pipeline, we dig up the streets. And so we've completely revamped how we do things at the Long Beach Water Department as far as how we handle the street repairs.
Speaker 8: In the past, we had two different crews, two different supervisors on the same project. They were not coordinated. And so we've changed that. So now one single supervisor and one crew looks at it as an entire project and handles it.
Speaker 8: We have on site inspectors to confirm work meets professional quality and that projects for strict quality specs. Smart Meter program. This is the largest financial investment we've made in quite a while. Something that's important to understand is army or advanced metering infrastructure.
Speaker 8: It's not like how you used to remember smart metering, where it just went one way, where it was just used as a meter reading function. This now allows two way communication between the customer and utility. So we get the meter reads and we can convey information back to the customer so they can use that.
Speaker 8: We have 90,000 parking meters to be either retrofit or replaced, so any water meter that exceeds 13 years of age will replace it. Everything else will just add that little white register on top that you see in the picture.
Speaker 8: Customer benefits. An important customer uses less water and lowers their water bill. This will eliminate billing errors due to inaccurate manual reads. Right now, the manual meter readers have to go into the vaults and there's dirt in mud over the meters, and lots of times it ends up in errors.
Speaker 8: This will eliminate that work faster billing dispute resolution. So where if you call in with an issue, our person on the phone can look at your meter as we speak. And then we eliminate also the substantial cost for manual meter reading.
Speaker 8: So in the old days, it used to be Southern California Edison, the gas utility, and the water usually going out to the house. Right now, it is only the water utility has manual meter reading. So it's very expensive.
Speaker 8: So we're going to save at least $2 million a year in those costs. Just no customer benefits. Wireless will be caught and fixed more quickly, reducing repair costs to customers. We can actually see down to the when you flush the toilet in the house.
Speaker 8: And so if you have a leak in the middle of the night and you see a steady flow of water at 3:00 in the morning, it'll give us an indication that there may be a leak at your house and we'll notify you.
Speaker 8: We plan in the future to introduce remote meter turn on this will eliminate customer wait time and further reduce costs. This is something that will be very fascinating. So rather than waiting for something to go out of your house and turn your water back on, we'll be able to do it remotely from our site.
Speaker 8: Cost conscious. Like I said, it was a very expensive project that we're undertaking. So one of the benefits, though, is that the gas utility in Long Beach actually implemented AMI a couple of years ago. And so we're being able to utilize their existing communication network and data management software and save money.
Speaker 8: That way, we obtain the best value.
Speaker 4: By bidding out 109 separate line items.
Speaker 8: Such as meters, lids, boxes and registers to try and get the best price from vendors. And we're hiring the current meter reading company as the installer of these smart meters and they already know the city and they'll be able to use existing staff and move them into this new project.
Speaker 8: Something I want to clarify is the typical monthly bill. There's been a lot of confusion with Measure M So back in October 1st, 2017, the the typical monthly bill for the water and sewer was $55.96. And then we had on January 1st we had the lawsuit settlement.
Speaker 8: And so our water commissioners reduced our water rates and sewer rates and dropped the average bill by $3.06. People seem to forget that that occurred January 1st after measure and passed. We raised the rates or we proposed raising rates 7.2% on the water side, zero on the sewer side.
Speaker 8: And that will just simply bring the water bill and sewer bill back up to where it was before. So we want to make sure that people understand that there will be no net change from October 2017 to October 2018 with this with this rate increase.
Speaker 8: I want to make sure that everybody understands that this rate increase is for Measure M only. We will take another look mid-year at our own purposes and see if there is a need to adjust water and sewer rates at that time.
Speaker 8: Even with this, I bring this back up to where it was in 2017. You'll see that Long Beach has the lowest combined water and sewer bill, if any major city in California. Quite a bit lower than virtually every other city, including Golden State, which serves parts of Long Beach.
Speaker 0: So, Mr. Gardner, I just want to just stop 1/2. I think I've seen this chart before, but I just think it's really a striking chart and one that I hope, you know that the community is also aware of.
Speaker 0: This does show very clearly, just when you look at a kind of apples to apples comparison of what our our water rates are versus the other agencies, it's amazing at just what we've been able to accomplish as a community and just the work that you and your team are doing and the savings that our ratepayers are paying
Speaker 0: when it comes to water and so and water and sewer. The combination of water and sewer. And so I just wanted to make sure I've seen this chart before and it always it's always good to see. So thank you for that.
Speaker 8: Thank you. Something I want to just touch on real quickly is something that comes up in the community. And I think it's important for everybody to understand. And that's the cost of bottled water versus our Long Beach tap water.
Speaker 8: If you look at this, 600 glasses of Long Beach tap water, you can get for the same price as one bottled water. So remember that. Nope, no plastic packaging. And so when I see the mayor drinking a glass of water, I appreciate that.
Speaker 8: That's good. Advertisement.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 8: So I want to close with just something that I think is important to understand. Since 1911, we've been serving the community of Long Beach. Our Long Beach waters, gluten free has zero calories. We deliver it to your home.
Speaker 8: Not it doesn't take next day. We deliver it whenever you need it. If you call us at 10:00 at night, we'll turn on your faucet. It can be used indoors or outdoors, removes most body odors. It's safe for children, pets.
Speaker 8: It's okay to drink and drive using our product. And you never have to remember Passcode before using our product. So that concludes my presentation. I'd be happy to answer any questions. Oh. There it goes.
Speaker 3: That guy's a Hall of Famer.
Speaker 4: Think you missed it.
Speaker 0: Mr. Gar, thank you for that presentation and let the council make some comments. I'll have some comments as well. Councilman Price. Oh, sorry. Because you were on a great job.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Councilmember Pearce.
Speaker 5: Also great job. I'm really happy about having the one team on our street so that we're not ripping up our streets many times. I want to echo the mayor's comments on our low water rate. I know that we don't want to increase costs for working families, but it is worth noting that that is a very low water
Speaker 5: rate. And as long as we are conserving, I think it's good. But I always encourage us to take a to take a look at that. And I know that we have a video shoot coming up where we are going to go out and we're going to learn all about the smart meters and we're going to do a
Speaker 5: go Long Beach video on it. So I'm really excited about that. But great job.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Yes.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman Mongo.
Speaker 5: Thank you. I really appreciate this presentation. This year I've had more connectivity with the water department than usual. And in my community we've had a couple of instances where seniors had their water turned off for forgetting to pay their bill.
Speaker 5: And that happens from time to time. And the idea that you would be able to turn on their water remotely is a huge, huge, huge impact to people. When on this particular street on Steve Lee, we had neighbors bringing down buckets of water so people could flush their toilets because it was a home that had three senior
Speaker 5: citizens living there and a daughter taking care of her parents. And so I know that these types of technological advances are things that sometimes we take for granted. But when you see what a community has done to be able to maintain the public health of a house and what it means to turn water back on in an
Speaker 5: instant, these kinds of things really need to be celebrated. Secondly, I know that I'm the water rates are of of discussion. And one of the things that I think is always really important is that when you look at the fifth District, that second bar does serve Long Beach residents.
Speaker 5: So Golden State water, while it is the second lowest, it still is $26 more a year. And there are entire neighborhoods in the fifth District that are served by by Golden State. And so it just shows that where you live from neighborhood to neighborhood, it does make a difference.
Speaker 5: And so I really appreciate all the work you guys are doing to keep water rates low.
Speaker 8: One thing I want correct, it's $26 a month difference.
Speaker 5: I'm sorry. That's right. Thank you. $26 a month difference. And that that's. Dinner for a family of four in my household when I ate at my mom's house the other day. My mom always tells me this meal was under $20 for all four of us.
Speaker 8: And so I wasn't invited.
Speaker 5: Italian sausage sandwiches, you'd really enjoy it. And so thinking about that on a weekly basis, on a monthly basis for someone like my mom, who's a senior, other people in our neighborhoods who are seniors, who are living on fixed incomes $26 a month is a huge difference.
Speaker 5: And so we really appreciate that. And then finally. This year was the first year that I had my house free piped, and since then I will tell you that the taste of water coming out of my faucet far exceeds the taste of any bottled water I've ever tasted.
Speaker 5: And so I'm just a big proponent for cleaning out your pipes and or replacing them if they need to be, and drinking the true, true American spirit of bottled water through these nice reusable straws. Thank you.
Speaker 8: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Mr. Silvano. Thank you. Great presentation. And you know, I'm going to talk about customer service. I've spoken to you quite a bit in the past about that. I think your department has by far the best customer service in the city.
Speaker 4: Thank you. But you don't. Unlike the poor, you don't have a second in command who's a fourth district resident. Right, but. But I'll give you a pass. You yourself were born and raised in the fourth district. Okay, so we're good.
Speaker 4: But I think the customer service focus that the water department has is is a tremendous asset. And while we look forward to technological, technological changes for turning water on off, you guys do a great job right now. I think it's just two weeks ago we had an emergency situation in the fourth District where some special needs residents
Speaker 4: needed the water turned on quickly. And you were on vacation and your staff jumped. Right. In fact, I think they even did a better job than when you're here, which I think I think there is there's an old adage that you can really tell a well-run department how well it runs when the boss is away.
Speaker 4: So kudos on that. Thanks. Take off next week, okay? Yes.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman Gonzalez.
Speaker 6: You know I love you because you're an Lamu lion. So that's first and foremost. But secondly, you run a really great shop and I just want to thank you. I'm glad we're very transparent, especially with so much going on in national news about water quality and testing and elbow has been tested.
Speaker 6: So I just thank you for providing those numbers. And my residents are also very happy that our water rates, you know, the people often say rates are going up, but we are very low considering the high level of service that we're given.
Speaker 6: So thanks to you and your team and the commission as well.
Speaker 8: If I can just touch on that, testing the schools. We did over 1000 tests last year at Long Beach Unified School District. We found two drinking fountains that had issues and the immediately replace it and solve the.
Speaker 0: Problems of issues. Councilor Richardson.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Just wanted to chime in and say what a fantastic job you and your team are doing. Thanks a lot for your hard work on figuring out the situation on Corwen. Corbin. Corbin we appreciate that.
Speaker 9: You know, we had a conversation just a week or so ago about the lawn and garden program. I fully support that program to participate in that program. So I want to make sure that, you know, when I know we're at, what, 250 now?
Speaker 9: We're at $2 to 50, something like that, $3. We're at three or back 2000 now. So we're back. We're up to 6000, $6,000.
Speaker 8: That's huge. 1500 dollars for design work.
Speaker 2: Which is. Wow.
Speaker 9: I mean, I mean, we should go share that with everyone because a thing when I didn't think it was 3000 and now is that six. That's that's a big deal. I mean, we get some retroactive. No, no. Okay.
Speaker 9: Thanks a lot. Keep up the good work.
Speaker 8: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Chris. Great job. I just want to let you know that after going through this, getting a large book here, I only thing I've done that was really exciting was the last page. So I just wanna let you know, keep up the good work.
Speaker 4: Good guy. You guys are doing a great job. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Councilman Austin.
Speaker 8: So thank you very much for the presentation. I certainly appreciate all of the hard work and efforts of all of the men and women in your your department. I think it's one of the best run departments drama free through in the city.
Speaker 8: I did want to just just comment on the one of the slides that that showed how low and where our water rates compare to others throughout the state. And just ask the question, I mean, are the disparities large many disparities in the state that have actual lower water rate rates than the city of Long Beach?
Speaker 8: Actually, there's quite a few cities that have very different rates, and it's largely a function of if you have imported water, primarily, which is very expensive or if you have a large supply of local supply. We're about 5050 right now between local supply and imported supplies.
Speaker 8: So if you have a city that has one 2% local supply, they'll probably be a little bit less expensive than us. But we have very low sewer costs in Long Beach. And so if you look at the combined bill, we'd be competitive and probably lower than virtually any city.
Speaker 8: Thank you for that. And then I'd be remiss if I didn't just remark on all of the the commitment to replacing water lines means throughout my district and throughout the city. Some of it has been a bit of an inconvenience to a number of our residents, but I think long term, it's a it's a it's investment, it's
Speaker 8: infrastructure work that that that's important. Can you just speak to where we are with with with that process? Sure. It's a wide and what we can expect in the future. Sure. So we work when we try and plan far in advance which pipelines we're going to replace.
Speaker 8: And then what we do is we talk to public works and make sure that we're coordinate with public works and with the gas utility so that we're only digging up the street once. What I had mentioned earlier was in the past, what we were doing was we were going down the street and doing the mains right down
Speaker 8: the middle, and then we would put a temporary patch on that. And then another crew would sometimes two months later, sometimes a year later, we come back and do the service lines that feed off of that. And so you'd have a temporary patch there for four months in a neighborhood, and that temporary patch is supposed to be
Speaker 8: there for about ten days, and we had some well over a year. And so we've we've eliminated that by doing it as one project. So the time should be much, much less intrusive on a neighborhood, and it should save us money.
Speaker 8: The quality of work should be much, much better than what you've experienced in the past. Thank you for that. And just to follow through on on that point, as you know, we are investing a lot of money and resources into repairing streets, residential streets and arterials throughout the city as well.
Speaker 8: Can you speak to how your department is coordinating with public works to to ensure that we're not duplicating efforts, we're not cleaning, we're not fixing the streets and then going in and tearing them up to do water work, water infrastructure.
Speaker 8: Sure. Part part of that is using gas and planning in advance. As you may know, we now have Sean Crombie on our team over at Water and coming from Public Works. He's able to really understand the nuances of working between both departments.
Speaker 8: He's also handling the engineering right now for the gas utility also. And so having him in charge of that and working on that with public works, I think you're going to see I won't say none, but you'll see virtually hardly any conflicts now with public works.
Speaker 8: That'd be great. Thank you very much. You're welcome.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman Ringo.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mayor. And I want to thank you, Chris, for the great presentation that you're one of the things that I like about your department. And since you've taken over the worried primary that you're very proactive in as a Councilmember Austin has mentioned, in terms of fixing the pipes.
Speaker 2: I remember a couple of years ago when you first came out to the department, there was an issue that Flint, Michigan, was going through with their with their pipes and dirty water. And I asked you if you could give the city council an update as to what the water department is doing here proactively to ensure that we
Speaker 2: don't get that type of problem. And you were very responsive, and I'm glad to see that you continue to look at our at our piping system and trying to address all those issues there. One of the things that came up this past year, obviously, is the fact that we have a lot of parks that are brown and
Speaker 2: in desperate need of water. And while there might be a lot of that being been necessary for the Parks and Recreation Department, I know we have got it out here in the audience. Is there any kind of coordination taking place between you and Parks Recreation?
Speaker 2: To look at how we can best make sure that our parts are getting enough irrigation, sort of as well as in. Yes. Another part of that question as well is that we have a lot of a number of mediums that are also in need of water because the trees are dying or are getting brown as well.
Speaker 2: So that's a very much concerning to many of the neighborhoods. And I have a major median in my area in the seventh District. Daisy, Daisy Street, as you know. And the big concern there is that a lot of those trees are dying.
Speaker 2: Some are old. I mean, it's obvious, you know, just nature takes its course. However, I would like to know that that if they if if they're dying, it's because they're old, not because they're they're dying of thirst. So is there any kind of coordination that you're doing with Parks Recreation Department to make sure that it doesn't happen
Speaker 8: ? Yes, Jerry and I had I call them Jerry because I can see these.
Speaker 2: Cattle row that aren't let's see the world there they are out there.
Speaker 8: And I had lunch last week and one thing that I offered to him was give me a wish list of what Parks and Rec needs. And, you know, and we'll try and be creative in how Long Beach Water can work with Parks and Rec as far as the irrigation of the parks.
Speaker 8: We've been working with them for the last year and a half on how to fix that, providing as much expertize as we can. We've offered to help them with trying to receive grants through Metropolitan Water District and other sources.
Speaker 8: Same thing with the medians. We make the same offer to work with Metropolitan Water District and other agencies to try and maximize grant funding to address the medians. What we've done in the past, this is the second year we've done it with in conjunction with public works and Parks and Rec for the Medians is we actually had
Speaker 8: a water truck that we filled up and go where the irrigation is not functioning and water the grass and the trees with that water.
Speaker 2: I'm glad to hear that because obviously it's as we continue with this drought that's going to be very important that we keep our medians irrigated. And congratulations in the great cool on taking crumby from public works I mean that's that's going to be a great good joining of efforts in interior public works and water working together thank
Speaker 2: you very much.
Speaker 8: Yeah when things I told Craig back it was it's great to have John Crumby stay in the family. So even though he transferred departments, he's still certainly involved with public work still.
Speaker 0: Thank you. And let me let me just add, Mr. Garner, again, thank you to you and your team. It's been great to work to work with you and to work with your commission. You got a great group of very active commissioners, as you know.
Speaker 0: And they're really involved in the community and I think have contributed so much to having this great water department that we have that we're very proud of and we're incredibly proud of, particularly the community work, I think like the port, which we mentioned.
Speaker 0: I think you guys are out there doing the community work, the sustainability work, the conservation work, and we really appreciate that, that leadership. And so just thank you for for everything you do for the water department and for and please give our best to the commission as well, because we're doing a great job.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Especially Commissioner Cordero. So thank you. And see, no other questions. That concludes both our harbor and our our water department. What we're doing now is we're entering our our budget hearing. We're taking public comment only to close the hearing on on water and on water and harbor.
Speaker 0: And then we will go into all the budget items.
Speaker 2: But then you're going to have public comment on the entire budget also.
Speaker 0: And that's in talking to the chair. We're going to separate that operated out. Yes. So we're going to close up. We're going to do public comment right now only on port and water. And we're going to close that final hearing up.
Speaker 0: And then when we go on to the budget, I know there's folks here that also we have public comment for the actual budget. So we're going to go right into that as soon as we're we're done. So please only water and port.
Speaker 7: Hi. My name is Ann Burdette. I didn't come here tonight to speak on this matter, but I was very impressed with Mr. Cordero's presentation, and I'm very excited about our report. And I would like to say we can't forget that all those containers are moved by workers.
Speaker 7: And when we talk about a green port policy that is dependent upon protecting the community and operational excellence, I think it's really, really important that we factor in the workers who are being subjected to wage theft and misclassification.
Speaker 7: I'm not telling you something you don't know. I've spoken with the Tidelands Committee on this topic before. Long Beach has contracts with companies that are currently being sued by Los Angeles for their practices. There are suits that have been brought and adjudicated and the State Labor Commission has ruled in favor of the plaintiffs and now there's enormous
Speaker 7: amount of waiting time while they appeal it. I really think that. Our. Reputation. Is excellent. I really appreciate that we are considered one of the most important and and most valuable ports in the world. I'm proud of that.
Speaker 7: I just think that we are factoring in only our economic and community advantages. But we're forgetting the incredible sacrifice that many of our workers are making every day when they receive paychecks that are a fraction of the amount of work that they've put in.
Speaker 7: So I want to suggest to the council we can't have contracts with trucking companies who don't follow the rules. And the California Supreme Court has ruled very, very clearly in dynamics that there are three conditions that must prevail for someone to be an independent contractor.
Speaker 7: And I think we have to respect that. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. Next speaker speakers lists on water and port. Please come down the last speaker. Okay. So the speaker's list is close after the gentleman. Okay.
Speaker 5: Hi, Karen, retired and resident of the first district, working in the second district and representing Long Beach Gray Panthers. We also stand with the port truck drivers and their misclassification for our community to get to the healthy point where we need to be.
Speaker 5: We also want to see our port, which is a large economic.
Speaker 7: Engine driver in our community.
Speaker 5: Do the best it can. And Mr. Cordero has done an.
Speaker 7: Outstanding job in bringing all the entities together to make that happen. We also.
Speaker 5: Want to advance the cleaner action plan as fast as possible to reduce the rates of asthma in our disadvantaged communities that live along.
Speaker 4: The.
Speaker 5: Freeway and near the port. We also want to commend the port.
Speaker 7: For your community.
Speaker 5: Engagement. A number of organizations that I work with have received community grants, and I can't tell you the difference that it has made in the quality of the programs that the community has been able to offer. And we hope that that continues and that more community organizations.
Speaker 3: Learn how to apply.
Speaker 5: And to understand that that's a benefit that the port provides that a lot of other entities don't. For the community and the community needs to.
Speaker 6: Take advantage of that. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 7: Hi. Carelessly fifth district. You have my address on file. I went for the first time the other night to the Water Commission and there was about 20 people there that were all opposing the 7.2% rate increase. They told us at the end of the meeting that they had received a total of 57 inputs on it and all
Speaker 7: of them were opposed. But then they mentioned that for this to do any good, what we really need is 51% of the people who get a bill, get a water bill to be opposing it. Now, I don't think 51% of the people who get their water bills knew about this.
Speaker 7: And not only did they not know about it, that would be a pretty stiff opposition that you'd have to mount to do that. I don't know if there's really an interest in getting public input on the water bill, but what concerns me most is this is something that's going to hurt everyone.
Speaker 7: It's going to hurt people who really don't have the money for that increase. I mean, there are people that have to go out and try and buy a sweatshirt for their child, for school, and you're putting your hand in their pocket.
Speaker 7: And I just think we could do a better job of managing our money. You know, I think we need to live to learn to live within our means like you do in any household. And the eternal search for more revenue is something that we should go back and look at.
Speaker 7: What can we do to live within our means to not be hurting these people? So I would be opposed to approving the rate hike, and I'm sure that anyone who knew about it would. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. And our last speaker.
Speaker 3: Here is a short.
Speaker 4: Okay. I'll be quick. I think the port has done a great job in cleaning up everything. I've. I've also briefly spoken with Chris, and I think the water company is probably one of the most efficient companies that I have in the whole city.
Speaker 4: Just my observation is that like some of these departments that are the furthest away or furthest out of control out of the city's control seem to be doing. And I'm trying to I don't want to sound like I'm being critical, but they seem to be doing better than the rest of the departments.
Speaker 4: You know, and I'm just wondering, maybe we should start thinking about. Doing that with other departments because I don't know if that's something that happens at too many people. Too many cooks get in the kitchen, but maybe it's a little bit better.
Speaker 4: Again, I'm just trying to I'm not trying to be critical at all, but I'm just noticing that I used to work at McDonnell Douglas a while back and the management, they would take these two week vacations kind of on their retreats.
Speaker 4: And what they would notice is that each time they went on these these retreats, the efficiency of the company just went through the roof. And they there was some kind of discussion on whether they should take three or four, and they refused to do it because they thought their jobs might be in jeopardy.
Speaker 4: And this is really the truth. And so I'm just saying that you're seeing a, you know, a really good manager here that's that's running this department very well. The gas company, they run very well, very efficiently. And you're seeing the harbor is just doing a great job in there.
Speaker 4: I mean, I can't even say enough accolades for the amount of of smog or, you know, air, air, air pollution that they have removed. And I mean, we're still up there, don't get me wrong. But but the amount of air pollution that that they've removed in a short period of time is just dramatic.
Speaker 4: It's a great job, you know, so, again, nothing critical about any of the people. But I do have one thing to say about our to a water guy here. I do have a bottle. It says Long Beach Water.
Speaker 4: So it is a plastic bottle just to let you know. So you have a good day.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. That concludes our water and harbor budget hearings. I want to thank all the council members for all of their questions and I think the public for their comments on that. And so will conclude the budget hearing and will begin going into the rest of the budget.
Speaker 0: But we will conclude that that portion of it. And so, again, thanks to our water and harbor department and we'll just begin the rest of the budget hearing in just one minute. So thank you very much.
Speaker 3: Hmm.
Speaker 0: Let's go and take a we're going to go to just a two minute break and then we're going to start right back up with the budget.
Speaker 3: Okay. Now. Anything you can. He's been living here. It was. I think that's.
Speaker 11: And. That's. And. And.
Speaker 3: On for.
Speaker 0: You can. We're going to go ahead and call the budget hearing back into order so we can have everyone please take a seat. And I know the council is coming back, so just over the next minute, please grab a seat and we'll come back to.
Speaker 3: Anything that you don't. Bottom, right? Sure. You know, I feel like I don't know when you have a sign that says don't be. Oh, I'm sorry, Larry. I'm just saying, Larry. Yeah. I'm.
Speaker 0: And then they did the sidebar. We're, like, rocking it out. Can the rest of the council come on and please? And if I'm going to go ahead, let me get the roll call one more time so we can restart the hearing.
Speaker 1: Councilwoman Gonzalez, Councilmember Pearce, Councilwoman Price, Councilmember Suber not here. Councilwoman Mongo. Vice Mayor Andrew's Councilmember Durango presented. Councilman Austin. Councilmember Richardson. Mayor Garcia.
Speaker 0: I am here. I think we have our quorum. I know the rest of the council is is coming back here in just a sec. So what we're going to go ahead what we're going to go ahead and do is start the formal budget adoption process and begin with public comment.
Speaker 0: I want to make a few comments. And just before we before we begin, there are there are a series of budget votes that actually have to happen tonight. And again, the council could go through and adopt the whole budget tonight or or adopt it next week.
Speaker 0: And in just a few moments, we will. Councilman Mongo, we're making a series of motions as we go through the entire the entire budget. And I believe it's about 17 items that we have to actually vote on vote on tonight.
Speaker 0: I also want to make sure a couple of things. I know that there's some folks that are that wanted to speak to this. So I want to clarify as well. I have talked to the chairwoman of of the BFC.
Speaker 0: And so I know that when the recommendations for the mayor's proposal come forward, I know that the chairwoman will be supporting the full recommendation numbers. We've talked about that and about where we can find some where where the funds are for different things.
Speaker 0: And so I am, of course, supporting fully funding the recommendations that I made as part of the with those funds and those other items. And those will be discussed at that point. But I know that I've gotten Mongo and I've had some good conversations about those, and she'll be explaining kind of the thought process and where we're
Speaker 0: getting what as we go through the process. And so I know that there was some conversation about that. And I want to just to mention that and she also will be recommending some other additions that other members of the council have been talking about and asking for.
Speaker 0: So she'll be discussing those when we get to the budget as well. And so I want to thank the PSC and the members of the Council as we begin. And so let me begin, Madam Clerk, we can just read all these as we go, and we'll start with item 1.1 and go through all the way 1.17 before

Speaker 1: Motion carries unanimously.
Speaker 0: To 1.10.
Speaker 1: Report from Financial Management Recommendation to adopt a motion approving the financial policies as recommended by the Budget Oversight Committee.
Speaker 0: These are the financial policies. One I need a great emotion and a second.
Speaker 5: And a slight friendly to that.
Speaker 3: Was.
Speaker 5: In light of the projected fiscal year 20 shortfall and the fiscal policies proposed by the U.S. have staff bring back a list of positions that were general fund enhancements recommended for structural funding within the last five years. To the B or C.
Speaker 0: Could there's a motion or a second with that with that addition that's on Richardson.
Speaker 9: Is there any changes in the financial policy from last year to this year?
Speaker 2: Mr. MODICA Yes, there are changes. We can go through those if you'd like to.
Speaker 0: Okay. Why don't we go ahead? We'll go out and go through those.
Speaker 2: Mr. GROSS. Thank you. There are two financial policies that have been changed. One is the financial policy number 17, which is on grants. This was an item that was reviewed last year but was not adopted. Basically, the change to summarize it is to let council know staff has a responsibility under this policy to let the City Council
Speaker 2: know about the funding in continuing or discontinuing of programs what the plan is when a grant becomes in front of them. And secondly, if that plan changes after a grant is awarded that we have to let council know in the next budget cycle.
Speaker 2: So it's more disclosure on grants. There is a second policy change on fiscal policy, which is number 12. This change doesn't even change the short statement for the policy. It actually remains the same. It's it's in some respects some more minor change.
Speaker 2: But it isn't it is a change essentially for the fiscal impact. The fiscal impact is now required for all fiscal impact statements coming before council, including on city manager departments or elected officials. And effectively, it requires fiscal impact to be reviewed by the financial management department.
Speaker 2: Unless that is inconvenient. If it is inconvenient, then it simply needs to make a statement that it wasn't allowed in terms of time to have a financial management review. Those are the.
Speaker 9: Changes. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Mr. GROSS. Councilor Pearce.
Speaker 5: Thank you and thank you for reading. I did have a question on the grants. Does that include whenever the grants that are available that we might decline? I know that there are some departments that they feel like there are grants out there that we haven't applied for, that we've declined.
Speaker 5: Does this allow for that transparency?
Speaker 2: It does not specifically address that.
Speaker 5: I know there's probably a lot of grants that we don't apply for. I guess I would ask that within this financial policy that if there is grants that we were denied for, that maybe those at the end of the year or two from four on, what we could have done to make ourselves more, you know, acceptable to
Speaker 5: receive those grants.
Speaker 2: I think if it's acceptable, we would take that as a just an administrative suggestion to come back to you at the end of this year. And then at some future point, if the PSC wants to formalize that in, the financial policy could maybe be the next version.
Speaker 5: Great. I think that's a great start for that conversation. Thank you. I'm actually slightly uncomfortable with making that change at this time. I know this is a policy we've debated for two years. The number of grants that we choose not to apply for is in the hundreds.
Speaker 5: What we don't apply for. Right? I get that. However, a lot of them are based on the potential for likelihood of funding. And so what I wouldn't want to happen is for staff to not want to apply, to not appear on the list.
Speaker 5: So if it's okay, I'd like for Bossy to have a staff report on that. And if we feel that the financial policy needs to be amended again, we could do that at that time. But the D.O.C. has spent literally multiple meetings on this financial policy and in talking with staff on their recommendations.
Speaker 5: Okay. We haven't had those conversations here. Agree. So that's the first time that I've heard that it's been this two year conversation. But what I'm trying to get at is if we if there are grants that we apply for and we do not get understanding what it is, why we're not getting them, so that if there's something
Speaker 5: that we can help change or have an eye on to say, well, if we only apply for this money or if we put seed money here, then we would get that grant. So having something on the administrative side, I'm fine with the whole thing at all.
Speaker 5: Fabianski appreciates your comments and we'll take it under consideration. Thank you. But I'm not open. I'm not ready to take a friendly on that yet just because of the multitude of grants that my department I know I'm not trying to not just have the chair of the EEOC.
Speaker 5: I don't feel that every single policy has to come to a full council. I feel that the the main bulk of the debate really has to happen because this policy we recommended two years ago.
Speaker 0: So so let me. Okay, so one, I do have a comment on this, but Mr. City Attorney, I know you're chiming.
Speaker 2: I did not hear a friendly in there. I think she had asked for a staff report back at their Mr. GROSS recommended a staff report back at the end of the year to give information and then you could consider discuss it at the next block.
Speaker 2: So I don't think there's a friendly to your motion.
Speaker 4: Right then that my.
Speaker 5: Motion doesn't include a staff report and I'm not planning to add one.
Speaker 2: But you could always ask for information without a friendly to your motion. You could ask for a staff report. It's not a friendly.
Speaker 0: I think I think I think what I'm interpreting is that Councilman Pearce is asking for staff information to give us more information about our grant process and what grants we what how we can do better as a request of staff for information for the council.
Speaker 0: So that's the way I interpreted that. And then obviously if there's there needs to be further adjustment to the financial policies, of course, those will continue.
Speaker 3: To be.
Speaker 5: Requesting changes to the.
Speaker 0: Right. But if there was, those would go to the court.
Speaker 2: And just for the council, I would like to point out that when ever the granting opportunity offers the opportunity to give us guidance on what we could do better, staff always take that call. So we often set up calls with the granting agency, and if they're willing to do it, go through our application and tell us, hey
Speaker 2: , you got knocked down for this. You did really well on that. And we welcome those opportunities.
Speaker 5: And my concern as a person who manages millions of dollars of grants for a living is disclosing the weaknesses in our application in a public way gives other people were competing against a leg up an advantage in their next year's proposal for the same funds that we're fighting for.
Speaker 5: So if you'd like to talk about, I think that's a valid response. Yeah, there's a huge there's a huge like data gathering related to being competitive in grants. And so I would just say that if you'd like to talk with staff about that, I think that that's great.
Speaker 5: I just don't I guess I just don't understand that we as a council ask for staff reports at the dais that we could just talk to staff. And so if it's out the that you're having a conversation about our policy and it makes sense to me that we all have this discussion versus in a small group.
Speaker 5: So I understand that, that we're kind of on our on our train and we're moving forward with our budget recommendations. Some of these we have not had a lot of discussions about as a whole body, and I think it's okay to slow down and have that conversation.
Speaker 5: So your response about being competitive and what process that is a valid response. So I just ask that as we continue to go through the next to them that I appreciate you and appreciate your validation.
Speaker 0: Thank you. So we have a motion on the floor and we have a request for an administrative update from staff. So, look, I know that we will get that update. And so Councilman Richardson and I will go to a vote.
Speaker 2: Sure.
Speaker 9: So about the report that comes back, I know there was a lot of conversation in the past about when we are offered a grant and don't accept it. And I know we had a conversation about disclosing when that does happen.
Speaker 9: Do we have that policy on hand right now or can that be included in that report? Right. So, for example, years ago when California Endowment offered the money for the I think it was the health element or whatever it was, and we didn't accept it.
Speaker 9: And the council found out later. I know we addressed that back then, but is that a current practice?
Speaker 2: So I think something like that happens very infrequently. We look for grants wherever we can. We try to get money. There are some grants that depending on the bells and whistles and hooks, they really aren't a good fit for us.
Speaker 2: So staff look at each one of those. We have departments lead that and those come to the city manager's office to make sure that we're not over obligating ourselves. And so we go through that. We don't have a specific policy.
Speaker 2: It's more of a does this make sense for us to apply for it? But if we ever do, is something that the Council has directed us to do and staff are purposely not doing it. That's where we have to have a conversation.
Speaker 9: I just like when we don't accept one movie, one in a grant, or I've been offered a grant and don't accept it.
Speaker 2: That's well understood when we apply and then later we say we're not going to accept. Yeah, we can. Certainly those are where we should certainly be informing you when that happens.
Speaker 5: You ask the question, why would I want to.
Speaker 0: Keep thinking we do have a motion and a second to approve the grant process. Know what we're talking about.
Speaker 3: School policy policies. Let's just.
Speaker 0: Provide a map.
Speaker 7: Of the whole.
Speaker 0: School and the financial policy, whatever we're doing. 1.10 is the recommendation to approve the financial policies as recommended by the PSC.
Speaker 1: Most motion case unanimously.

Speaker 0: So she'll be discussing those when we get to the budget as well. And so I want to thank the PSC and the members of the Council as we begin. And so let me begin, Madam Clerk, we can just read all these as we go, and we'll start with item 1.1 and go through all the way 1.17 before
Speaker 0: . Yes. No, no, we haven't put it on them yet. They're going to come up. And before we begin that, to conclude this part of the budget hearing, we are going to do public comment. So first, we're going to be doing public comment.
Speaker 0: So this is on anything to do with the budget and we're going to close public comment. So we go to the votes. We're doing one public comment period. So please come forward if you have any comments on the budget in any general nature.
Speaker 0: Thank you.
Speaker 5: Yeah.
Speaker 0: Anything budget related. Now is your opportunity to make public comment.
Speaker 7: Good evening, mayor garcia and council members. My name is Ann Burdette, proud resident of District seven. Thank you for the opportunity tonight to speak to you about the budget. I am here representing Long Beach Sacred Resistance. We are a coalition of over 25 Long Beach faith communities standing in support of the Long Beach Justice Fund.
Speaker 7: I had full funding of the Long Beach Justice Fund written in here, but apparently you've taken care of that. I appreciate it. Last night, I got a chance to finally see RBG, the documentary about the life of Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Speaker 7: I lived through that time period when she made most of her impact on law, and I watched her tireless efforts to educate the court about the reality of gender bias and discrimination. It's fair to say that she had quite an uphill fight.
Speaker 7: She had to face a court in which one of the members said, But, Mrs. Ginsburg, isn't it enough that we've put Susan B Anthony on the dollar? So most people at that time read that most men just didn't have a clue how egregiously women were discriminated against.
Speaker 7: Similarly, I lived through a very fierce battle for equality for my LGBT family and friends. Again, most of the leadership in government simply did not have any idea of the effect of exclusion, prejudice and bigotry on vast numbers of their neighbors and coworkers.
Speaker 7: Earlier, members of the community spoke eloquently about the impact of racism. Today, I'm painfully aware that too many residents of Long Beach live in complete ignorance of the incredible suffering of our immigrant neighbors from stereotyping, intolerance and now direct attacks from the federal government.
Speaker 7: That's why I'm so grateful to our mayor. And for all of you who support his proposals for the establishment of the Long Beach Justice Fund to provide legal representation for those Long Beach residents whose futures and families depend upon a fair day in court.
Speaker 7: Ruth Bader Ginsburg was clear that the best road to equity was the legal system she has devoted and continues to vote her entire life to defending the principles of due process and equal protection under the law. It is our last, best hope in the face of bigotry.
Speaker 7: I implore you to vote to include the mayor's allocation of $250,000 from the General Fund to establish a universal legal defense fund for immigrant residents in Long Beach facing deportation. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 5: Clayton, Diane, Ola, Jean. I'm here to address the water rate, the water rates being raised.
Speaker 3: And that is number one three.
Speaker 5: And I hope you're really paying attention. I know Susie Price is Lena Gonzales since Roberta Durango. Those are the ones who are paying attention.
Speaker 1: I'm going to summarize a.
Speaker 5: Letter from my attorney and to Eric Beneke, attorney at law. Is this a summary of a protest letter that you will find in your packets? Please be advised that this firm represents Long Beach Water Department customers Diana La Jeans and Angela Kimball.
Speaker 5: Ms.. We and I'm going to summarize it as in our own personal, we believe that the proposed water and sewer rates are illegal to the extent they embed amounts to transfer from the water revenue fund to the city's general fund based on any purported authority provided by Measure M.
Speaker 5: The basis for our contention is threefold. First, the city apparently agrees that the water and sewer fees and charges are properly real property related and accordingly are subject to Proposition 218. Basically, the California Constitution prohibits this. Secondly, Proposition 218 prohibits the imposition of property related fees if such be exceeds the funds required to provide the property related
Speaker 5: service. Embedding surcharges to fund transfers to the general fund fund violates this. Finally, to the extent the city contends that fees and charges constitute a voter approved tax, the city lacks legal authority to impose taxes on persons and properties outside its territorial limits.
Speaker 5: Miss Campbell resides in an unincorporated area of the Los Angeles County, and yet she was unable to vote on Measure M. Yet she is subject to the tax. Based on the foregoing, we respectfully request the City Council decline to declare an ordinance approving resolution number WD 1392, which raises the rates of the water that we receive.
Speaker 5: So I hope you pay very close attention to this.
Speaker 7: This is we.
Speaker 5: I am the same person who.
Speaker 3: Filed the.
Speaker 5: Lawsuit before.
Speaker 3: And you were.
Speaker 5: Forced to settle because of your illegal activities. So I am suggesting that you do not continue that and that you vote no.
Speaker 7: On this resolution. Thank you very.
Speaker 0: Much. Thank you, Ms.. Logins. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 7: Evening, Mayor Council. My name is Angela Kimball. I reside in the unincorporated county island of Long Beach. My address is.
Speaker 3: On file.
Speaker 7: And I am requesting that you decline to approve resolution WD 139 to increasing the water rates, which essentially amounts to an illegal tax. This body has no jurisdiction over the residents of the unincorporated county island. We were not able to vote on Measure M.
Speaker 7: We do not reside within this territorial limits and boundaries of your city. Yet we are being subject to the tax. And of course, now the increase that is proposed in these water rates. I have joined the lawsuit with Diana logins and you have our letter from our attorney on record.
Speaker 7: Again, I request that you oppose you decline to approve the water rate increase on not only the citizens of the city of Long Beach, but the county island residents, which represents 543 homeowners, as well as business owners who had absolutely no opportunity to vote on Measure M.
Speaker 7: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Good afternoon. Members of City Council and mayor and vice mayor. My name is Christopher Covington. I'm a resident of the sixth District. Coming to you now is a one pager of the people's budget. I am a member of the Investing Youth Campaign as well as partner of the People's Budget.
Speaker 4: And so I was prepared to come out here and raise hell and talk about all the things that you could do. But I really appreciate the conversations that have been happening in front of us and behind doors to really stay firm and commit to the mayor's recommendations on that, he proposed with a lot of your input and
Speaker 4: community's inputs as well. So this evening I want I'm not going to be able to be here the full time to watch the whole thing because I have to take students home. But I'm looking forward to listening on the radio and on my phone how the rest of the votes go.
Speaker 4: And I do appreciate all of the work and I really appreciate your you challenging yourselves not only to staying within the boundaries of, you know, the commitments you make to yourselves, but also making the commitment that you're hearing from the youth here today, as well as the community members who have taken their time to listen.
Speaker 4: There's been a long process and we've been attending some and most of the committee hearings on the budget. So we really appreciate today that being that you all commit to passing the mayors recommendations as is and if there's opportunities to increase line items looking into those as well.
Speaker 4: But on the topic of the Invest the Children and Youth Fund as recommended by the mayor and with support from City Council, it's we would like for it not to be a participatory budget process. We would not like for it to be housed in the Parks Department.
Speaker 4: We actually see it fitting in the Office of Equity under the Health Department, and they have a lens that meets and that matches the particular vision of the city, a plan that the youth who've been working on this and the youth that has been contributing to our surveys and having their voice be heard in this process, to
Speaker 4: be able to see the type of positive, healthy youth development that the city deserves. So again, we ask you to house that fund within the Health Department under the Office of Equity, and we look forward to seeing the vote this evening.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 7: Well. Counsel, good evening. I am Mikayla or Mack Harris. I am in the sixth district, I believe are the eighth district. I don't really know for sure, but I'm here speaking on behalf of the Investing Youth Campaign. And I wanted to say, first of all, thank you for taking into consideration the all the work that we've done
Speaker 7: as youth and funding and recommending the Fund for the Child Youth Fund and all that stuff. And I'm sure that if it does get passed, it would help a lot. It would help a lot of youth. Remember, their voice matters and it would just uplift youth in our community more so than they already are.
Speaker 5: Or if they're not, it uplift them in some aspect. I also wanted to echo off of what.
Speaker 7: Chris just said. I strongly urge the fund to be housed in the House of Equity because I feel like it would.
Speaker 6: Strongly help our.
Speaker 7: Views. So I hope that you guys take that into consideration and thank you. Have a great.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 7: Hi. Evening, everyone. I'm Helene Hoffman. I'm an immigration attorney and I am here to talk about.
Speaker 0: Would you mind putting the mic a little lower so we can.
Speaker 7: Sorry.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much.
Speaker 7: I'm Helene Hoffman. I'm an immigration attorney. I've spoken to you once before. I'm here because I'm urging you, begging you to support Maya Garcia's fully funded justice fund for non to have legal representation. Many immigrants that live or work in Long Beach, this is very, very crucial because anything less than the $250,000, it will not help very
Speaker 7: many people at all. I know about this. I do it for a living. Immigration law is a very, very difficult, complex area. Many, many cases have to be appealed. And, you know, with appeals, the legal attorneys fees, they just go up and it can take years sometimes to complete a case to fruition.
Speaker 7: It's a tremendously difficult area of work. It took me two years I coming from another field just to get myself up to snuff. And as you know, many other cities have fully fund many, much more these kinds of cases.
Speaker 7: Los Angeles has a justice fund of $10 million undocumented immigrants. Also, when they come here, they don't know English. They're thrown into a court system they're not aware of many, many of them are unrepresented and many of them don't know what's going on or they're deported.
Speaker 7: And I want to remind people, if you read about what goes on in Central America, and I've had clients like this, many of them are deported to their deaths. Okay. And I'm really, really mean that all you have to do is read a few articles about it.
Speaker 7: As for another issue that doesn't come up very often is bail that these people, if they have any money at all, they have to choose between bail, posing, posting, bail to get out of deportation, which is a horrible place to be or getting an attorney.
Speaker 7: They often cannot do both. If you with your fully funded justice fund, they can do things like that. And those who are bailed out have a far higher rate of getting successful, successful representation and are not deported. So immigrant immigrants released on bail that this is the statistic have an eight times higher average to when they're cases
Speaker 7: another issue and my final issues about unaccompanied children a lot of times this doesn't come up, but these are children who come here without any adults. They are under 18. Many come from war torn Central American countries. And the problem is they're not entitled to a court appointed lawyer, even if they're two and three years old.
Speaker 7: There have been immigration attorneys who had to actually go to court with representing two and three year old children who knew no English, who don't know what the heck is going on. It's just a horrible situation and many and half of them are not represented in court.
Speaker 7: I mean, can you imagine being in that situation or having a child? You know, in that situation in 2017, over 58,000 children. Thank you.
Speaker 0: So much.
Speaker 7: Under the age of 18. We're in deportation hearings. Thank you very much. And I hope you take my advice.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 3: Good evening, ladies. Senior Council members.
Speaker 7: My name is Kim. In many cases, I am a resident of the sixth District. I'm also.
Speaker 5: The executive director of CCG community based organization here in Long Beach and also.
Speaker 1: Commissioner for the Human.
Speaker 5: Relations Commission. So it's great to hear that the recommendations by Mayor.
Speaker 7: Garcia are being considered, especially for the full funding of the Children and Youth Fund in the amount of $200,000. You know.
Speaker 3: We've been really looking at ways to develop strategic.
Speaker 5: Partnerships between, I think, the city community based organizations that.
Speaker 1: Specialize in youth development, community members and young people.
Speaker 7: To really come up with a plan for how to really invest long term in youth element and address some of the needs that they have as an organization. That's part of the steering committee for the Youth Development Division at the county level.
Speaker 5: We're really starting to see now the roll out of.
Speaker 7: What that investment looks like and how that's.
Speaker 5: Impacting Long Beach. And we're seeing the hundreds.
Speaker 7: And thousands of dollars that will be coming to Long Beach within. This year that is investing at the end in youth at the point of contact with law enforcement. And I think it's a really.
Speaker 3: Positive thing that we're.
Speaker 5: Looking at investing at the preventative end. The $200,000.
Speaker 7: I think is a really.
Speaker 3: Key.
Speaker 1: It's the key seed money.
Speaker 7: To get us to think about a long term strategy around investing in young people. So I'm very happy to hear that. So thank you. I also want to echo the the sentiment of what's been connected to some of the health outcomes for young people and for it to be housed within the health department.
Speaker 7: I think that that the alignment there with some of the efforts that we've already established with young people is directly.
Speaker 5: Aligned with with health department initiatives. So thank you for that.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 7: Hi. My name is Jackie Guerrero. I am with an organization called the Advancement Project. And I have been, you know, working closely with Invest in Youth Campaign. So thank you again, Mayor, and the rest of the Council for all the work that you've been doing and all the listening you've done with the various youth that you've been
Speaker 7: meeting with. I want to also thank again for the, you know, the support for funding with the mayor's proposal and allocating the 200,000 for in seed funding for the Children and Youth Fund. A big part of you know, the support that I've been providing has been looking at what other cities have done across the state.
Speaker 7: And Long Beach would be the first city in Southern California that has it, that has and will be looking at a holistic view of what children and youth need here in the city. And that's setting yourselves apart from what other cities are doing.
Speaker 7: And that's a huge thing. It's really being a leader in this area here in Southern California, and that's super important. Another thing I want to mention is in a lot of the meetings, the that I've been with with the young people, they're the ones leading this effort.
Speaker 7: They're the ones that are telling us what they want. And they continuously tell us that they want more mental health support. They continuously tell us that they want more support for jobs. They want to work. They continuously tell us that they want more development, youth development, to help them grow up and be, you know, productive members of
Speaker 7: society. And this is what we're trying to achieve through this. It's it would be a huge first step for the city. So I really commend you on your leadership and thinking not just for this year, but thinking in the future.
Speaker 7: You know, I again, I also support efforts to ensure that, you know, this money gets allocated to the health department, given that there is alignment of looking at how we can support youth through a health lens. So thank you all again and I appreciate your time.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next week, please.
Speaker 3: Good evening.
Speaker 5: My name is Mae.
Speaker 7: I am a resident of a second district. I am so. I'm here tonight to voice my support for the mayor's.
Speaker 5: Original proposal to allocate.
Speaker 1: 200 K and C money.
Speaker 5: For the Long Beach Children and Youth Fund. And I also ask that the Council act on behalf of the people and vote to keep the people's budget proposal intact. So I wanted to share some of my perspectives.
Speaker 7: Of why I think investing in youth is so important, and also why it's important that the way that we allocate the money is a youth and community.
Speaker 5: Driven process. And as other folks have said, that is housed in the health department. So I'm a Ph.D. candidate in sociology at USC.
Speaker 7: Also work as a research associate for Californians for Justice and a volunteer for my goals and action. So for many years, I've been privileged to witness.
Speaker 5: Firsthand the transformative work of organizations that cultivate the leadership of youth of color. So young people often tell me over and.
Speaker 7: Over again from different folks that they be a completely different person if they had never joined these groups. Many of them told me that they.
Speaker 5: Used to be painfully shy because they never had.
Speaker 7: Spaces to cultivate and encouraged their voice. They told me that they were once afraid to voice concerns and to speak up against the injustices that they experienced.
Speaker 5: But over and over again, I've seen how youth leadership and developing groups develop young people's skills.
Speaker 7: And provide them with the support that they need to thrive and to earn their power as change leaders. In shedding their fear, I see that youth of color and low income youth of color are able to transform not only their own lives, but also the lives of their peers and their communities.
Speaker 5: As well as their families. So you have often seen young people here bravely pushing and testifying for change.
Speaker 7: We've seen them at the forefront of social transformation.
Speaker 5: Whether it's addressing school shootings, the targeting of Black Lives Matter deportations. We need young people at the forefront of social transformation.
Speaker 7: We need this, especially because we know that systemic poverty, trauma.
Speaker 5: Racism and other forms of inequality conspire to constrict their pathways to success. And this is especially true for low income immigrant youth of color and queer and trans youth. So I think we need more youth to have access to these types of nurturing spaces.
Speaker 7: We know that growth and development don't just happen spontaneously on their own.
Speaker 5: When you see young folks here is.
Speaker 7: Because they have been brought up in an ecosystem of support that's helping them to hone their skills, that's navigating them through.
Speaker 5: The onerous process of college applications, that's helping them to, again, to own their story. And so they're truly a testament to the importance of youth leadership spaces.
Speaker 7: And to the spaces.
Speaker 5: That help them bring their massive potential to fruition. I also want to point out quickly, because I am a sociologist, that this is all corroborated, corroborated by research. A 2013 study by Tariq Aziz and Roger's found youth organizing alumni are more likely to attend a four year college and also are twice as likely as their peers to
Speaker 5: be civically and politically engaged.
Speaker 7: And so when we invest in youth, we're also investing in the healthy future of our community and prioritizing the support that young people in Long Beach need to thrive.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Thanks, Speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Good evening, Mayor. Council members. I am from Nicaragua, the National Organization of Language and Alumni. And my name is Tyler Somnath, which is a name from laws that most people cannot pronounce. But my family's from Laos, and we stay in Long Beach, sixth District, which is full of immigrants and refugees, just like my family.
Speaker 4: Now, before I begin my story about my family, that has a lot of things about Southeast Asian folks and youth that can relate to. I want to say that poverty is not a crime and that youth are not the problem, but not having resources and support or budget to invest in youth and families is now my father
Speaker 4: trying to escape war came to America and now to cope with all of that stress, he drinks alcohol.
Speaker 8: Smoke, cigarets.
Speaker 4: And now he needs me to take care of them.
Speaker 3: Now, at the age of 52.
Speaker 4: Someone his age should not be needing to go to the emergency room for alcohol withdrawal. But the lack of resources in my community includes not having local rehabilitation or therapy. And this affects my lifestyle personally now because I take care of him, I take time out of my my life, which is taking time out of school or
Speaker 4: work to watch after. Now, this is very stressful and is very painful. Seeing my dad like this.
Speaker 8: Is very stressful.
Speaker 4: Frustrating. Now this is affecting me cutting down classes and in fact it's affecting my school life overall.
Speaker 3: Now.
Speaker 4: Youth shouldn't be having to carry this burden. And we want to succeed and dream and do well and be part of a history that heals and our harms. So we should fully fund 200,000.
Speaker 3: To the Army's youth today. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. You did a great job. Thank you for speaking. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Hello. My name is Amy Langhorne. I'm a resident of District six and I bring with me all my members, my community members who are not here with me today. It is my privilege to be.
Speaker 6: Here and be the.
Speaker 7: Voice.
Speaker 1: And represent my community. I am the daughter of a Khmer Rouge survivor. Growing up, that meant I had a purpose to hold my my legacy and culture, to restore this legacy that met taking care and learning how to navigate a new world for my mom and dad.
Speaker 1: I remember as a youth, I translated for them at medical offices.
Speaker 6: I even translated.
Speaker 1: With for them enrolling myself in school. I was only in kindergarten. At that age, I knew that I had to take responsibility because my parents didn't know how to get the support they need growing up. I understand now that it's because they didn't have the resources.
Speaker 1: During resettlement and the healing from the trauma. If I didn't have to translate or be a caretaker for my parents, I would have been more focused in school. Instead, I was struggling with a lot of anger. I was mad with what I had to put up with and the lack of resources I didn't get as a youth
Speaker 1: . If my parents resettled healthy, my mom would have continued her education and became a teacher. Instead, she had to deal with compounded stress of being separated from her family and not getting the skills she needed to navigate it to navigate work, school, and raising her family.
Speaker 1: Not having all these resources made.
Speaker 5: Her an easy victim.
Speaker 1: Of stroke and heart attack, which many war survivors in our community faces. When I was 15.
Speaker 5: I was so grateful to.
Speaker 1: Join my girls in action. I joined the Young Women's Empowerment Program and learned about my history and the trauma of war that has been passed on to generations after mine, after my families. I then began to heal and understood.
Speaker 1: My anger was really about not having resources and access in my community and the burden of not taking care that made me fall short. But I learned that loving my community meant fighting for what we need and what we deserve.
Speaker 1: And that is why I'm here today. Now, I'm a community organizer like my Girls in Action supporting transitional youth who graduated high school and is navigating adulthood. K.J. held a place for me to develop in my leadership, and now I'm organizing young leaders to get their communities.
Speaker 5: Out to vote. Out of the 757 people we surveyed.
Speaker 1: 83% believe that community based development programs are the.
Speaker 5: Best way to support youth.
Speaker 1: We urge council members to support the organizations who brought you here with the Investing Youth Campaign. We ask council members to show the youth love by approving the 200 K that the Mayor proposed for the Children and Youth fun to be housed under Health and Human Services Department.
Speaker 5: Which will serve the needs of the larger.
Speaker 1: Population of Long Beach, including the community. Show youth the love. Don't leave youth and community out of this year's budget. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next speaker.
Speaker 2: Please. Good evening, Honorable Mayor Garcia and city council members. My name is Nurse. I was here earlier today at the Budget Oversight Committee making my public comments on the some of the recommendations from the DLC. I'm also a District six resident and raising a child in the district.
Speaker 2: So I'm here with skin in the game. As folks we said earlier today, our marriage city council awarded the young folks that were up here with you today on their accomplishments in baseball. Remember, not all our youth have the privilege of accessing these opportunities, yet they have overcome PTSD, war in genocide, displacement, unmet mental health needs, and
Speaker 2: lead with single parent households, among other training issues. Today, youth in our community have come out on their second week of school in hopes to have their labor and hard work of serving community needs awarded with our mayor's proposal of $30,000 for the Long Beach Children.
Speaker 2: The new fund. Excuse me. I'm a little choked up. Just better. They have volunteered their weekends and summers to give this city sound research, as has already been mentioned. They have gone. They have gone home today without knowing if our city council cares.
Speaker 2: But we know we can count on you all. We know we can count on you all to show you how to love and to approve the mayor's original proposal of the $200,000 for the Long Beach Community Fund. It is time we have done a lot of work and we have come a long way to move the conversation
Speaker 2: where it is now. We need you all to stand with our young folks and really fully fund an ambition and youth fund, not look at any mid-year review or mid-year reassessment, but really invest in the new young folks now.
Speaker 2: Additionally, we are fully supportive of seniors services and programs. However, we recognize that.
Speaker 4: These are two unique.
Speaker 2: Groups of individuals that have unique needs and supports. And so we really want to ensure that this fund is focusing on the needs of young folks. Additionally, we, as some of my peers and comrades have have mentioned, we really think that the most appropriate place for this, for this fund to be managed is in the Health and
Speaker 2: Human Services Department that we're open to and conversations with Kelly Calliope and other folks in the Health Department to determine where is the best fit within the Health and Human Services Department. How are we? We really believe that based on the scope of work and the expertize in strategic planning, that this is the right place for.
Speaker 2: The Lumbee Children Youth Fund has given young folks a second chance, and we want to model how the city can also give young people a second chance by investing in our young folks. I really hope that we can count on your vote.
Speaker 2: And thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. Next speaker, I'm also going to be I'm going to be closing the speakers list. If those are the gentleman at the back with the caucus, I want to be sure there will be the last speaker and I'll be closing the speaker's list.
Speaker 0: Yes, next speaker.
Speaker 4: Hi, everyone. So my name is Danielle. Loretta. I live in the second district and I've been living there for about 19 years, though. So I just want to talk more about why why y'all should support the deportation defense fund.
Speaker 4: So for me personally, it will benefit me by ensuring that my family members, loved ones and community members will have legal representation in courts when facing a deportation hearing. We know that folks with legal representation have a more likely chance of staying here with their families.
Speaker 4: I have friends who have lost their parents, families, family members, as well as friends because they don't have the funds to like have that legal representation for them. So the lack of representation and separation and family means to me that there are human rights violations happening within our city of Long Beach as well.
Speaker 4: And losing my loved one is a reality we live in as we live and as community members here in Long Beach City. It's important for city council to allocate the 250 K for the Deportation Defense Fund because of this, as a city that emphasizes on their diversity and also inclusion, it would only make sense for them to
Speaker 4: support their most vulnerable communities and city of Long Beach since they face the fears and traumas, the policy of being deported, who are currently in deportation process and no legal representation provided for them as well. So City Council as a community, we asked for everyone here, which works for the people of the City of Long Beach to
Speaker 4: endorse a people's state budget that includes a universal legal defense fund for immigrant residents facing deportation. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. I like your shirt. Think I like the logo on the front. Next. Bigger, please.
Speaker 1: I. Good evening. City Council and Mayor Garcia.
Speaker 6: My name is Alejandro Campos.
Speaker 5: I am a member of the Long Beach.
Speaker 1: Immigrant Rights Coalition, and I was a Long Beach resident for more than 20 years. I'm here today to emphasize.
Speaker 5: The importance of having.
Speaker 1: Legal representation available to our community members when facing deportation. As someone who has benefited from DOCA, I am privileged because the.
Speaker 5: Risk of being.
Speaker 1: Placed into removal proceedings is slim. But although I have benefited from some protections as a daycare recipient, I continue to advocate for my undocumented community who have placed in deportation proceedings is faced with not only huge financial burdens from the costs of bond and attorney fees, but are hit with the hardship of not having any legal representation
Speaker 1: period, because deportation is classified as a civil matter rather than a criminal sanction. Immigrants facing deportation are not afforded the constitutional protections under the Sixth Amendment. This is just unfair. Our communities need to know we stand with them.
Speaker 1: Our communities need to know. Need to be afforded the opportunity to stay with their families. As this affects me personally and affects my community. I am here today to ask you to support our immigrant community and approve the proposal to allocate $250,000 for funds to a legal defense fund.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next week. Please.
Speaker 4: Good evening.
Speaker 2: Everyone. Brothers and sisters, fellow human beings. I'm Javier Sanchez. I'm here. And from the ninth district. I'm here on behalf of Border Angels, Los Angeles, Orange County. Borders Angels is a nonprofit organization that's advocates for humane human rights, humane immigration reform and social justice or humane or immigrant.
Speaker 2: Brothers and sisters are coming to the United States escaping poverty and violence. Not only is it not only due in part to their country's governance, but also in part to the United States involvement in their home countries. As one of the many things that Angels does, and besides, dropping lifesaving water across the border is provide support to
Speaker 2: our day laborers in our local communities. We do this by providing water, food, hygiene and valuable information to our day laborers. And we're not sure knowing the rights should they ever be detained by ice. We are telling stories of laborers not getting paid what was agreed upon or getting paid at all and being abandoned their job sites
Speaker 2: due to threats of being deported. These people are trying to live dignified lives. It brings me great sadness to know that there be over 1400 cases in Long Beach area alone and so few have legal representation. To think that so many families could be separated, the financial, emotional and psychological strain it will cause is heartbreaking.
Speaker 2: I can't stress enough the importance to have a full $250,000 fund allocated for legal defense to residents facing deportation. What keeps me going is seeing the people from the community organizing and fighting for the solutions being presented today, which is why I'm confident that the people's budget proposal will give our fellow residents, our neighbors, the chance with
Speaker 2: legal representation to keep families together. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Hi, I'm Arlene Alvarado. I'm a property owner in the first district. I want to support the mayor's budget. I think it's very important. I'm a proud daughter of an undocumented worker, and he became legal when he fought World War Two.
Speaker 1: Right now, with the cut out. If he had served in the Army, which he did, he he would right now, he would automatically get his citizenship. People are being deported who are now working in the are in the Army.
Speaker 1: I really support this, especially with the with the cut outs. It's not very much language justice. My grandmothers and my great great grandmother could hardly speak to didn't speak English. And this is really important to to have some kind of implementation for language access, policy, safe houses.
Speaker 1: I live in the first district and how it is filled with apartments, filled with cockroaches and rats. And the tenants are afraid to even. Complain about them because if they do that one landlord rents are ready, rents are being raised horrendously.
Speaker 1: We not only need more inspectors, we need inspectors to go out without people asking for them to come. Youth Opportunities. I'm a Chicano from Chicago. I went to the very first settlement house in Chicago that Jane Addams created.
Speaker 1: It was called Hull House. Chicago had this great program. I used to go to day care that the city paid for. I went to summer camps. I wrote in a place called LB kind of North, and we would stay there for two weeks at the city.
Speaker 1: It was minimal amount of money my parents paid for. We had settlement houses in every single neighborhood.
Speaker 3: This is.
Speaker 1: $200,000. This is nothing compared to what was spent on the as a child in Chicago in the fifties. Right. Okay. The other thing is, why are we starting poor people? Because we are cutting taxes for rich people right now.
Speaker 1: And I am a property owner. I don't care about my property taxes going up. If it goes to support issues, like I think it's really greedy of many of the people in our city who want it. We want to stamp out poor people so that they rich the constituents can have tax breaks.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thanks so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Good evening, Mr. Mayor. And City Council over here, Rivera with Libra. Try to be quick about this. We're just simply here as part of the people's. The people's budget. To to request that you uphold the mayor's recommendations. And to fully fund the the legal defense fund of $250,000.
Speaker 4: To also fully fund the youth opportunities and the invest in youth campaign of $200,000. And also consider the the recommendations or the preferences of the youth and youth organizations of where to house it and how to actually have that money decided upon.
Speaker 4: And it's youth decided upon. We're also asking for you to consider the full recommendations to follow, to give money to the language access policy, but also requesting an additional fund so that we're fully funding the policy of $210,460.
Speaker 4: We're also asking that you consider to please make the staff position of the Office of Equity, of the person that oversees the language access policy, full time and structural. Because if we're going to really if we're going to assess the language access policy, let's give it the resources that it actually needs to be fully implemented and fully
Speaker 4: carried out before we start assessing it. If we're not giving it the resources that it needs to actually get going and giving the personnel to back it, it seems it seems premature to try to assess whether or not it's been effective when we really didn't give it a good start to be to begin with.
Speaker 4: We're obviously our housing advocate. So we're in. We're here also asking for consideration to you, for you to fund additional code inspectors, but also realize that the the efficacy and the efficiency of the program depends on the system and the technology that it utilizes.
Speaker 4: I sent all of the city council members links to a a code process or code program that is being used through cities across the state. That makes it completely, completely mobile. It allows for code inspectors to be out in the field for more time.
Speaker 4: It automatically updates the system mobility and it makes the information available online to the public real time. And these are all things that we need to do, especially advocating or promoting ourselves as sort of a technology technology city.
Speaker 4: We need this type of technology to improve our code enforcement process. And on a personal note, I want to say that we're definitely and I am definitely in support of the marijuana expungement that's being recommended as well. As we know, these type of crimes or or arrests around marijuana have disproportionately affected the African-American community.
Speaker 4: And this mayor, this marijuana expungement would definitely alleviate that in our communities. And we need to start. And just one final note. I personally will be thankful and grateful when the city's budget actually reflects an equitable distribution of its funding that meets the community's needs.
Speaker 4: Until that day, I am going to be satisfied with the wins that we've gained as a community. But I will be thankful and grateful when I see that day. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. Next speaker, please. Last speaker.
Speaker 2: Hello, everyone.
Speaker 0: My name is Cee Lo Ideas. I'm a social.
Speaker 4: Activist. I just graduated. I just started our culture.
Speaker 0: Analysis of education grad program at Cal State Long Beach.
Speaker 9: I just finished.
Speaker 0: My B.A. in political science. Science to me.
Speaker 4: And basically, I'm here supporting the people's budget, including safe housing, youth opportunities, language.
Speaker 0: Justice, and efforts to protect immigrant rights. I am a dreamer with outcome, and one of the main reasons why I'm pursuing grad school is because I feel safer in Long Beach than compared to other cities. However, even with my current legal status, I speak from a place of privilege.
Speaker 2: Privilege of.
Speaker 0: Education, privilege of understanding public.
Speaker 4: Agencies, including political ones, privilege of knowing.
Speaker 0: How to defend my rights and conduct research. However, many of the.
Speaker 4: Individuals needing legal counsel or.
Speaker 0: Who are facing deportation are not privileged as myself.
Speaker 4: Therefore, I ask that.
Speaker 0: You reconsider allocating moneys for the Universal Legal Defense Fund. Your constituents are counting on all of you. Thank you. We are the change. Thank you very much. We're going to go ahead and close the public comment. So let me go ahead and go back to the other items.
Speaker 0: I know we're going to start with the first item. I want to start with the first item. I'm going to have a councilman, but I will go for the first item since it's the harbor and water. Madam Clerk, item number one.
Speaker 1: Report from Financial Management Recommendation to adopt a resolution approving the Fy19 budget for the Long Beach Harbor Department.
Speaker 0: Before I go, I know we have some comments. Do people want to make general comments or we want to get through all these resolutions first and then make these comments when we get to the budget?
Speaker 9: Yeah, let's do that.
Speaker 0: I want to do that. Comes, go.
Speaker 5: I'm comfortable either reading all of them or approving as we go. Does that make you comfortable?
Speaker 2: Right. We would need to, as Maria suggested, either we take the council comments now and we go through individually and vote. But I wouldn't want to read all 17 and then go back and try and figure.
Speaker 0: I think I think either we do the council comments now or we do we begin voting on the kind of items that are that are not necessarily the budget but relate to the budget, get through all those and then have those comments.
Speaker 2: Or you could council could queue up to talk to each one. We need a motion in the second on 17 of those. I think we definitely would like to do it right.
Speaker 0: Okay. Why don't we just begin going through the items and then we get closer to the budget? We'll go from there. So that item 1.1.
Speaker 1: Support from financial management. Recommendation to adopt a resolution approving the A4 in 19 budget for a Long Beach Harbor department.
Speaker 0: K There is a motion and a second. Members, please go ahead and cast your votes.

Speaker 0: Weight. Thank you very much. We're now going on to the next item, which is the the the larger of our discussions. But that's okay. And that's item 1.12. If we can please have the concreted.
Speaker 1: Report from Financial Management Recommendation to adopt the Budget Oversight Committees, propose funding recommendations as amended to the FY19 proposed budget.
Speaker 0: Thank you. I'm going to turn this over first to I know we're going to discuss this. So what I'd like is I think Councilman Mongo is going to go through her the narrative, right. That's different. You want to do it that way?
Speaker 0: We just go to the narrative.
Speaker 2: Yes, we read the motion in the record. She can say or make whatever amendments she'd like to the B or C recommendation. If it's accepted by the floor, then we can have a vote on that.
Speaker 0: Okay. I know that there's some conversation that folks want to have, so let me let Councilman Mongo bring that forward.
Speaker 5: Okay. So a couple of amendments. One is an amendment to the city manager fund to. In partnership with a recommendation from Council Member Austin to request a friendly amendment to supplement the 200,001 time funds for youth with 100,000 contingent appropriation for senior programing.
Speaker 5: I do want to make a comment on the totality, and while I appreciate Councilmember Richardson's comments about the community and their organized efforts, there is a lot to be said for the members of our community that are on the Youth and Children's Support Commission.
Speaker 5: And our commissions are another component of community input, along with for the Seniors Share the Senior Citizen Advisory Commission. The mayor asked me to kind of provide some context for where we received our ideas based on the information we had for getting the Parks and Recreation Director to make along with the work force director to make recommendations
Speaker 5: . But that does not limit what the commissions would be able to come out with. More for the point to acknowledge that one many afterschool programs had been cut and the Parks and Rec director had managed those and knows and understands where those were, what those attendances were, where the community need has been requested.
Speaker 5: I know that Councilwoman Gonzalez on many occasions has activated some of her parks through some funding. That was not in any budget this year. And he has the ability to bring that forward along with Councilmember Austin's requests. And when I say Councilmember Gonzalez or Councilmember Austin, I don't mean them as people.
Speaker 5: I mean them in their communities they serve who have had considerable input, along with the communities that used to be served by programing that has been cut, and for that as a whole to be in the context of programing proposed.
Speaker 5: But at the end of the day, the. Commissioners would make those recommendations back to the BRC for consideration. And the reason that is, is because we believe that as important as the very well-organized youth participation is, there is also another arm of our city government, which is a formalized process for citizen engagement and community engagement and resident
Speaker 5: engagement and visitor engagement. And it is important to continue to provide opportunities for those individuals to use the information they've learned over several years on these commissions to bring recommendations forward. It does not mean they would be adopted any more or less than any other recommendation.
Speaker 5: So that's one. The next one, I believe, would be.
Speaker 2: Sorry to interrupt. Yes, sir. On this recommendation, this is an amendment to your motion to expand the purpose of the 200,000. One time in, you're adding the $100,000 contingent appropriation. Is that.
Speaker 5: Correct? Correct.
Speaker 2: The the sentence then continues. That said, the funds are proposed and managed by Parks and Recreation and Marine Department within workforce and receiving input to the citywide programing. Is it still correct? Is that still in motion?
Speaker 5: Yes. So what we foresee again and this is through a lot of community input and again, I'm open to still having a discussion, but acknowledging it comes with that.
Speaker 2: I understand that. I'm fine with that. My question is the use to indicate that the Senior Advisory Commission to be forwarded for approval by the B or C, as you know, the B or C wouldn't approve anything they could hear and make a recommendation to the city council for approval so it could come to the B or
Speaker 2: C first their recommendations, but it wouldn't in there will be approved there. It would be something would be approved or recommended out of the council. Right. It would have to come to the full council back to allocate that funding or to approve that funding.
Speaker 5: Understood. Okay. Next would be in light of the projected shortfall and the fiscal policies proposed by the B or C, have staff bring back a list of positions that were general fund enhancement recommended recommended for structural funding within the last five years.
Speaker 5: This mirrors a request of the Budget Oversight Committee last year that didn't materialize, and so we will again request it. And this time I would actually add in that it should be brought back to the BRC by March, because last year I know we asked for a list of the positions that were structurally funded out of grants
Speaker 5: and it just never materialized. And I recognize we're very busy and we've also had staff changes, so we're understanding of that.
Speaker 2: And Councilmember, I believe this was also already added to 1.10, which had to do with financial policy.
Speaker 5: So I don't have to say it again, that one is perfect and I remove that and then use the remaining. 185 of year end estimate, along with a fiscal year 19 contingent appropriation to fund the following in priority order, the 215 for the elimination of the St Trump tree stump from the removal backlog.
Speaker 5: 70,000 for the Parks and Recreation Strategic Plan and 50,000 of one time funding to be used to support efforts around affordable housing and homelessness. So. So these are all things that were either discussed at the full council or the Bossi or the CHP discussions over the last several weeks.
Speaker 5: And so those were. Does a have any others that I'm missing? Because I'm trying to make sure that everything was the one.
Speaker 2: I believe that you had started to read into the record before, had to do with the Reserve Police Officer program. And if we could also get some clarity on that motion, if that's.
Speaker 4: Still part of it.
Speaker 5: It was just that in our discussions with PD, there were lots of mandatory order ins on police officers. We recognized that we're recruiting as quickly as we can and that we are doing our best to fill our positions on a full time basis, but as available to us to put a little effort behind allowing our full time
Speaker 5: police officers to to retire and come in as a reserve so that they could fill some of that special event and other overtime, which we're having such a hard time filling. And we kind of talked a little bit about how it's not good for anyone, for a police officer to to roll an 18 hour shift and to
Speaker 5: be on orders. And so we just hope that though it has come up in several previous budget discussions this year that it would. Get some attention.
Speaker 2: So as we understand it, is using existing internal resources rather than creating a new program or using existing internal resources to promote reserves, to try to get it more people interested in the program and to help them where we can to lower some of our costs.
Speaker 5: And we recognize that we kind of talked about this and it was in one of the memos back to the council that the Reserve program already has 20 something officers in it and that training new officers can be expensive.
Speaker 5: However, accepting reserves as a retiree requires is an option that could could possibly help with that. And we're open to all things. We're just hoping that it materializes this year.
Speaker 2: That's helpful to clarify that, that it's not a new program but rather expanding our our recruit. And thank you.
Speaker 5: Expanding the program as reported by the chief. Did I miss anything else?
Speaker 6: Just one point of clarification. Hundred thousand contingent appropriation for senior programing? Yes, ma'am. Later, you also have some other additional contingent appropriation. Yes, ma'am. You said in the following order. Yep. Should that 100,000 for?
Speaker 5: It's at the top of the list. It's at the top of the list. Okay.
Speaker 7: After the tree stump.
Speaker 5: Before. Before the tree stump removal. Correct. Okay. Thank you. It's pretty much after that in cascading order of cost. Thank you. Remember Price, did you have a comment on the recommendations? I do. Is the friendly amendment a yes or no?
Speaker 6: I'm a seconder.
Speaker 5: Right. And so I'm friendly in myself. Are you accepting of my friendly?
Speaker 6: Yes. Yes.
Speaker 5: To myself?
Speaker 6: Yes, absolutely. I do have some questions, though, regarding some clarifications. So for staff, I know staff had talked about the $50,000 as being kind of seed money to start the discussion on affordable housing. Is that affordable housing and homelessness?
Speaker 6: Is it affordable housing or homelessness? And what's the plan for that 50,000 and what approvals will be sought before that's spent?
Speaker 2: So for $50,000, we would expect to bring on kind of a consulting firm that will help us do some of the research and some of the outreach dealing with additional resources for both homelessness and affordable housing. So the presentation that we made, we'd be looking at at both, we'd be engaging a number of stakeholders within the $50,000
Speaker 2: limit that we could. Some of these efforts, if you look at other cities, have gone much larger. You can go up to 200, 300, $400,000. It depends on how active you want to engage, but we would take the $50,000.
Speaker 2: That would be our initial funding amount and we would do what we could within those dollars. So that would be under the city manager's threshold. So that would be something that would come, you know, that would be go through the normal procurement process under the city manager, the authority and.
Speaker 6: Okay. So do we not have any state one time dollars available to do outreach on homelessness?
Speaker 2: So we looked at first and foremost the weather, the heat funding, the 1.3 money could. 2.3 funding from the state could do this. There's a prohibition on that funding for anything dealing with planning. So anything that has to do with with planning, administration, future, allocate your future allocation of resources, we are prohibited from using it.
Speaker 6: Okay. So thank you for that clarification. That's very helpful. And then the consultant we're going to hire, do we expect that consultant to cost $50,000 or do we expect that a portion of that $50,000 would be used for the consultant?
Speaker 6: And then the remaining portion of it would be to implement an outreach process like community meetings.
Speaker 2: Yeah. So I think that primarily we would be asking for community meetings and a facilitator for a process. So staff don't have a lot of resources right now. Given everything we're doing, we would need someone to help us facilitate those.
Speaker 2: So with 50,000, I think in this case we would say this is our budget. And how how many interactions can we get for that amount of dollars? And then if we needed to go beyond that, we'd come back to the council and say, Here's where we are.
Speaker 2: Do we need to go further and are there additional dollars?
Speaker 6: And I think I know the answer to this question, but I'm assuming this is going to be a citywide outreach. So even if we're combining multiple districts kind of like what we've done with short term rentals where we have multiple districts that can attend a single meeting, is that what you're envisioning?
Speaker 6: Correct.
Speaker 2: Probably for this amount, we wouldn't have one in every district, but we would look at geographic balance. We'll make sure everyone had the ability to get to a meeting. They wouldn't be district centric. They would be you know, we're trying to reach a number of different populations with the dollars that we can, like short term rentals.
Speaker 6: Might I venture to say also like the bluey meetings where they're a never mind. Sorry, sorry.
Speaker 2: I'm not going to comment on that.
Speaker 6: The other question that I had was, once we we.
Speaker 3: So will there.
Speaker 6: Will we come back? I'm assuming will come you'll come back to council and talk about what the plan, the outreach plan is before that money. It we're setting it aside, but we'll have a specific plan.
Speaker 2: And yeah, we'd like to communicate to the council what the plan is. We'd like you all to be a part of that. This is going to be something that is a community wide engagement. So we're going to be engaging number of stakeholders and the Council would be helpful in identifying who we should be talking to.
Speaker 6: Okay. And I'm just and I think I know the answer to this question as well, but none of that $50,000 should be.
Speaker 3: Used for.
Speaker 6: Literature advocating in favor of, against or educating anyone on what a future policy could look like.
Speaker 2: We would use it for education on, you know, what the various options would be, but nothing will be decided until the council decides to put something on the ballot, and then that would be a separate discussion. So we would go through a process and education process.
Speaker 2: Talk a little bit about the various measures that are out there, what the need is. So some of that but not, you know, here is what we're doing and and making any advocacy on that. That would not happen at all until the council decides what what you would want to do.
Speaker 6: So if I'm understanding you correctly, this $50,000 would be for us to figure out what our options are and how we want to move forward.
Speaker 2: Yeah, but I think it's also education on what the current need is and what we believe the issues are and and getting some of that informational material out. So I don't want to I don't want to get anyone astray.
Speaker 2: There will be in dollars for educational and from educational information, but not specifically leading towards one conclusion or the other.
Speaker 6: Okay. So what I would like to request is a friendly is that any. Educational materials that are printed in connection with this $50,000 come to council for approval before they're distributed.
Speaker 5: Open to it? Sure.
Speaker 6: Great. I mean, we can talk about it, but that's my friendly because I would I don't want anything going out since this is just an exploratory dialog process.
Speaker 5: I completely understand and recognize that the amount of information and communication and understanding of this has been a little bit confusing for the community, at least in the comments I've received back. So I can completely understand. And I think it's funny that as the second day you're also friendly and ourselves.
Speaker 0: Let me move on to Councilman Austin and let's clarify, I think. Are we clear on where the motion is right now, Mr. City Attorney.
Speaker 2: Yes, sir. I believe that the there's two amendments to the Velshi recommendation. One is to request a friendly amendment to supplement $100,000 contingent appropriation for the senior programing. And the second was to the program, 185,000 a year. And to create fiscal year 19 contingent appropriation in the following order, the $100,000 for the senior programing first 215,000 for
Speaker 2: the elimination of the tree stump removal backlog, 70,000 for Parks and Rec strategic plan, and 50,000 for the one time funding to support homeless and housing. And that had a friendly that any fliers or mailers have to be presented to the City Council for approval.
Speaker 2: And can I ask for some clarification on the friendly? Are we talking about meeting invite fliers or are we talking about like because there's going to be a lot of things that staff will have to produce to have this effort.
Speaker 2: So if you can provide some clarity on what you'd like to see.
Speaker 6: I'll try my best to do that. No, I'm not referencing meeting invitations or meeting notices. I'm referencing information because we may not all have agreement on what we think the need is. We may not have all have agreement on what we think the options are.
Speaker 6: So I want to make sure that the community has an opportunity to weigh in.
Speaker 3: Before.
Speaker 6: We establish any sort of consistent messaging on behalf of the city, especially since we're talking about affordable housing and homelessness. So we're talking about two very broad categories. And if we're going to be doing any informational materials outlining a situation, I may think the biggest issue facing us with homelessness is one thing and a colleague may think
Speaker 6: it's another. So I think it's just a very broad category. I would say $50,000 isn't a lot of money. And if staff felt comfortable saying, we're going to use this money to reach out to as many people as we can in the city, we're going to use this money to hire a consultant to help us do that
Speaker 6: . And we're not going to use this money to advocate any particular position. We're just trying to get feedback and have dialog. I think to me that seems like a very reasonable place if we're starting a discussion.
Speaker 2: And that's where we're starting. So we don't imagine doing any informational advocacy. This would just be reaching out and holding meetings and doing the discussion and basically showing some of the presentation that we had shown you to begin with.
Speaker 2: So that's kind of where that was our approach.
Speaker 6: Sure, that sounds fine. I'm okay with that. I just thought that there was going to be some informational materials that were going to go out.
Speaker 2: So I think I think I understand where you're going. You're talking about doing mailers to houses and, you know, no, that is not what we're talking about. That's part of that $50,000.
Speaker 6: Right. Perfect. Then I'll withdraw the friendly.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Let me go. And and to that point, too, I think it's it's good for clarification. I know that for the $50,000, I mean, that's an initial amount to get started and to actually if we were actually going to move forward beyond that, there'd be some there would need to be some significant conversations at the council
Speaker 0: about funding anything beyond that, because that's really just going to get us started. Is that correct?
Speaker 2: Yes, that's.
Speaker 0: Correct. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Marker. Thank you. To come to In Price, Councilmember Austin.
Speaker 8: Okay. Thank you very much. And thank you, Councilmember Price for for clarifying and withdraw in a friendly I had a little bit of concerns about the friendly amendment in terms of just process, but I think we're going to be just fine.
Speaker 8: I do appreciate the the amendments brought forth by by the B or C chair Miss Mango specific to you know, leaving you find it 200,000 but also funding senior programing at $100,000. And I strongly support the engagement of our youth newly structured youth commission, commission on Youth as well as our Seniors Commission, because I think they can
Speaker 8: give us some, some some great direction. And this is why we we have the mayor has appointed and the city council has approved the appointments of those commissions. We we seek to engage those those commissioners in the process.
Speaker 8: And it would be, I think, really shortsighted of us to to to bypass them on on these particular items. I know. And our conversations and the intent of both of these funds, at least, yes. Was to engage our commissioners more.
Speaker 8: And those who are advocating on how those funds be, be be allocated and spent can, can, can go and present before those commissioners. And so we can have a more more engaged, appropriate, biased process. And I'm thrilled that we are we're putting together some some seed money to to study our, I think, most pressing issue of homelessness
Speaker 8: and affordable housing. Both are extremely important. We've heard from residents, I think, in every all nine districts that those issues are priority issues. And so for us to put forth resources this evening and this fy19 budget, I think is very responsible moving forward.
Speaker 8: And so I'd like to at this point offered a friendly amendment that I that I tried to get in in the last item, and that is taking this back to funding this African-American cultural and art center. And I don't think it will cost that much for us to to get some some initial study money for, like I
Speaker 8: mentioned earlier, outreach, civic engagement and establishing establishing a stakeholder taskforce with the city manager's office to to get that done. And I like the motion or amend your motion to have that fund come from the SAP. One. I think that is the most appropriate fund for it to come from.
Speaker 8: And if there's. And I think there's room in there to do that.
Speaker 5: I think that some of the things that you'd mentioned in some previous community forums might have aligned with the ACP funds more directly than what you just stated. So perhaps we could get an overview from John GROSS really quickly in a sentence or two on what SAP funds can be used for.
Speaker 5: I know you and I discussed this when we heard some things in the community earlier.
Speaker 4: We we recommend based on the.
Speaker 2: The vote of the people and with regard to ACP that the ACP funds, they can be used for advertising and promotion directly for advertising and promotion. We do not recommend that they be used for capital items, not directly related, very directly related to promotion, so that Wayfaring Signs, for example, would be a capital item that would be
Speaker 2: appropriate for ACP. We do not recommend that capital items that are indirect be used for ACP so that we do not have potential audit issues or compliance issues.
Speaker 8: Okay. So does it sound like ACP is the best option? Thank you. Mr..
Speaker 5: There are some ways where ACP might be viable. I think that it just depends on the context of which the cultural center you're requesting.
Speaker 3: Would.
Speaker 5: Gather that information and support. And so I just think that the way it was phrased tonight was a little bit different than the way I'd heard it phrased maybe two weeks ago in the community. And so if it's promoting and supporting the advancement of African-American culture in the community and that as a citywide effort, that would qualify
Speaker 5: . Was that what your intent was?
Speaker 8: Well, that's the ten year ago.
Speaker 3: That was Mr. Market.
Speaker 5: That in.
Speaker 0: Wording. I want to make sure because I think I think we all support this effort, but I want to make sure we're pulling it from the appropriate place so that we have the ability to be flexible and how we this is an important process.
Speaker 0: So we want to be sure that we're not overly stubborn.
Speaker 4: Yeah.
Speaker 0: And hampered by, by where we're getting the money funds. So is SFP a possibility for us to do this? And if not, what would be?
Speaker 2: So can I ask another just a another description of what the effort would be? Is this for, you know, for planning, for, you know, funding, you know, site location? Is it for the ongoing operation? Is it giving it to an entity?
Speaker 2: If you can just describe I.
Speaker 8: Know this would be this would be planning and outreach efforts to to to envisioning for for and site selection. All of the all of the above. All right, Mr.. Mr. Jackson has been working on this with with with me, and maybe he can provide a little bit more clarity.
Speaker 8: But specifically, this this this will go toward, I think, more of a planning vision process, community engagement.
Speaker 2: Councilmember did it was I didn't hear a dollar amount that you were discussing.
Speaker 8: We wanted initial seed money of $25,000 would be a drop in the bucket.
Speaker 0: Mr. Modica, can we respond to that?
Speaker 2: Yeah, that's given us a little a little hard time to find that as a as a direct connection to SRP. So just historically, what we've spent SRP for really is for promotion and marketing in the city and its natural assets.
Speaker 2: That's really the definition that was voted on by voters over the years. We've extended that to some of the very public art kind of institutions as part of the promotion of our natural efforts at Ford for $25,000. We'd like to try to find another funding source rather than ACP and and we'll try to find something, you know
Speaker 2: , that we could come up with.
Speaker 5: And make a recommendation.
Speaker 4: Yes, please.
Speaker 5: For the outreach and promotional efforts of the African-American culture, up to $25,000 should the need be in the outreach and promotional category. If it is not an additional 25,000 for planning at the list of contingencies.
Speaker 8: They would go.
Speaker 2: I think that would make us much more comfortable for making more marketing.
Speaker 5: I know the way to canning it was a new word for me.
Speaker 2: And so and the planning effort needs to be a general fund. Thank you for that. Okay.
Speaker 5: No problem. It's I've it's taken me four years to finally get to where John GROSS says yes to when I say SRP. And so it's a very technical area with Mr. GROSS. And I appreciate his prudence.
Speaker 0: Thank you. I'll move it back to Councilman Austin.
Speaker 2: And for the contingent, is that where does that fall on the list of the order?
Speaker 3: Well, I.
Speaker 5: Don't have my list in front of me, but can we just.
Speaker 4: Add it?
Speaker 0: We will just add it to the way that.
Speaker 2: We were added to the list.
Speaker 0: Thank you. So let me go back to Councilman Austin.
Speaker 8: I mean, that that that I think would complete my my interest and I would just encourage my my colleagues to support these amendments as proposed. It's been a long night. Looking forward to getting home.
Speaker 5: Could I put it right after the strategic plan? That would be great.
Speaker 2: After the strategic plan. Okay. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. A great item to add to the budget cuts and repairs.
Speaker 5: Okay. I was going to say that the African-American community is part of our natural things, that we should be celebrating people, that we should be celebrating in the city. So it seems to make sense for SJP, for me.
Speaker 5: That's just my $0.02. Just to put that out there. Just putting it in there. So I'm going to start with Health and Human Services, because I had to organize my thoughts a little bit. I know that some of the conversation that we already had previously was around language access.
Speaker 5: It was my understanding from the report that we heard from staff is that it's about 3334 K. To make that a full time position. What was that like? And so that would be my my request. And I know that other council members were likely speak to that.
Speaker 5: I wanted to talk about development services and be clear on this. I know that we need to have a time line to hear back on the code enforcement technology piece. And I know that that's a difficult time line to put our hands around.
Speaker 5: So just knowing that this motion moving forward with the mayor's recommendations does support us getting to the place where we need to be with Prep. And so I feel like we are at that solid place there with Parks and Rec.
Speaker 5: I know that we brought up Bixby Park in Parcel One and I know, Mayor, you and I have had conversations around this. For my community members that were so excited about this. I don't know if it's with Tom or with our new parks director.
Speaker 5: If we could talk through kind of the plan for getting parts of one to be funded, at least in the phase one.
Speaker 2: And so I Pursell one of of what.
Speaker 5: Makes me part of.
Speaker 2: This makes me part. Yeah I think that's something that we'd have to have her out to come down and address.
Speaker 5: We talked about it during the budget conversation before and I know that we had toyed around with Measure A, but just give us a timeline on on when we think we can present that to the next Funding Options Council.
Speaker 4: I believe we have a meeting scheduled with your office, yourself and the friends of Bixby Park in order to walk parcel one of Bixby Park into space to conceptualize a phased in program or approach for for improving that parcel.
Speaker 4: There was a cost estimate already that we had shared with your office that was a little over half a million dollars. And so the idea was to see if we can find a plan that would phase it in perhaps phase one being 100,000.
Speaker 4: If there's something that is that makes sense with regards to like an 88. I mean, a path that is ADA accessible and other possible elements for improvement of parcel, one that would be in potentially phase one. That's what I would call was the great location.
Speaker 5: Great. And for folks, I just I know that I have my friends at Bixby Park that care deeply about this. It's a project that's been under work since I was in office and that just wanted to make sure that those folks that watch diligently at home on Tuesday nights know that this is still a priority of ours
Speaker 5: . So thank you for that. The other part that I wanted to talk about is Health and Human Services. I guess this is sorry I mixed up all my notes and things just got so easy afterwards. I want to ask our staff if we could, as Kelly Colby does.
Speaker 5: She is I know that in the last budget presentation, we talked a lot about our STDs, the rates going up, but our funding decreasing. I wanted to to hear if we've had any changes in the proposed budget that's in front of us as it relates to as kids and funding those positions that we needed to see and
Speaker 5: believe. There was a 15 K for community outreach and a 15 K for our mobile unit that no longer was being funded. So if we could get a report from you so we can understand what we might need to add.
Speaker 5: See how I talked all the way till you get down there. I just did.
Speaker 3: That for you. Good evening. So the funding that we currently have is about 120,000 total. Most of that funding will go away, will be the 47,000 total.
Speaker 7: Starting in the middle of this next year. That funding is for HIV testing and treatment. So as we have looked at what we could use additionally to try to start to address needs in the community.
Speaker 3: We have not had a lot of funding for our mobile clinics. So to be able to do testing and treatment or at least testing on the mobile clinic and then to provide it for treatment, 15,000 would be a start.
Speaker 7: And then also just doing outreach and really engaging communities and working with folks so that they're willing to come in for testing also takes quite a bit of time. So I and at approximately $30,000 that's a starting space and moves us.
Speaker 4: Sort of takes it sort of enhances from the 47,000 that we'll have but.
Speaker 3: Won't take us back to the full amount.
Speaker 5: And that 30 cases for that outreach. I know that when you and I had some some back and forth, there was a number that was around two staff.
Speaker 7: Right. So that is.
Speaker 3: The disease investigation specialist. So they actually go out and work to track down folks and to help bring them in for treatments. What we really find with folks who have syphilis.
Speaker 4: And gonorrhea, that is there's a lot of.
Speaker 3: Partner services needed. So those folks are out really trying to engage people and working closely. Once someone has been.
Speaker 4: Identified to be positive, to be able to.
Speaker 3: Work with their partners, to bring them in as well, so that we start to slow the.
Speaker 5: Trends. Great. Thank you for that. And then since you're here, just to be clear on the language access, it's a 35 number to fully fund that position.
Speaker 3: Yeah, I believe the exact number is 30, 32,007 something. It's just below 35,000.
Speaker 4: Yes. And that would take us to a full time full time employee.
Speaker 5: Great. Okay. So my I guess the only comments I have now is to make a hopefully a friendly motion, I guess to include the $30,000 needed for our STD outreach. And that we if there's contingency funds, I guess is where we're going with we add this to the list for the staffing for STDs.
Speaker 5: We know that in Long Beach, this is a number that's going up dramatically and might not be the funnest item to to bring up in Champion. But it is one that is really critical to our community. So and that third we fully fund our language access with the 35 K.
Speaker 2: Whereas the two items are three items.
Speaker 3: Or.
Speaker 5: Three items. So one is the 30,000 for outreach and mobile services for our city. The second one is she had two staff members to do this the first work, and that it would cost about 160, which is not a number that I'm comfortable with asking for tonight because I haven't had the conversations with all the council members
Speaker 5: or with the boss. So it's 164 contingency funds for those two staff positions. And then the third one is to move forward with the 35,000 to make the language access staff person full time.
Speaker 2: And I do want to point out that those would be all three of those appear to be structural funding, and the contingency appropriation is a one time amount that we would have available to us.
Speaker 3: Yeah.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 0: I just I just need clarification so that I understand the motion as well. I'm sorry. I got the 30,000 for some of the city work and the health department outreach. Is that right? Yeah. There's 35,000 language access policy from fully paid to fully funded staff position.
Speaker 0: And and was there there wasn't an additional 160,000 or. There was.
Speaker 5: So it's 160,000 is what Kelly has said that they need for for two people to specifically work on some of the syphilis outreach and and case management that they are missing.
Speaker 0: But that's different than the 30 K.
Speaker 5: Yes.
Speaker 0: So you're so you're it's so it's 160. You're asking for 162 staff, two people in the health department. Four. Okay. 30 K for additional to the outreach.
Speaker 5: Right. It's like, you know, outreach.
Speaker 0: Material 30 and then 35 for language access.
Speaker 3: Yes, sir.
Speaker 0: And the 35 is on top of the current was currently funded or is that or you're taking money from that. It's on.
Speaker 5: Top of.
Speaker 3: Yeah. I think you.
Speaker 5: If we're going to keep it.
Speaker 0: Let me let me keep going through that, I guess. Pierce. Okay. So Councilmember Richardson.
Speaker 9: Thank you. Thanks, Mr. Mayors. Late. I'm going to apologize right now if I'm a little all over the place, but I'm trying to keep up, so on. So the first thing when talk about the Beach Street's recommendation for the ride from one beach streets to two.
Speaker 9: Councilwoman Mongo, did you have locations in mind for those two or what? Where did you get the idea for two?
Speaker 5: So I read your recommendation to go two more and then I made some outreach to the Special Events Department and talked with them about what opportunities they had. And they felt like activations were most effective with multiple council officers and using and relying on prior data.
Speaker 5: So I wrote that into the motion that they use those things in consideration and then they thought that it would be very, very difficult to do too much less more. And so I tried to adopt as much of that as possible.
Speaker 5: I also received some input from the community and other constituency groups that they thought perhaps beach streets had. Exhausted its time frame that the most recent beach streets actually didn't have a councilmember attendant in attendance and had some particularly low attendance overall, and that there's some very high communities that really have great participation and others that don't
Speaker 5: . And so there was some discussion on how that could be done. And so I was hoping that a soft landing point would be to activations. That would be stretching special events, though, and they wanted us to know that.
Speaker 9: Let's elaborate on the stretching a little bit. So the initial idea for me was that I kind of agree that Beach Street's great idea, but it's not something we want to do one or two times a year. I think it's a great program, but I think for a lot less money and a lot less logistics on special
Speaker 9: event side. We can do smaller activations. When I say smaller activations. You may not cross into another district, right? We're talking a quarter mile, half mile where you can give more attention to those small businesses and the models.
Speaker 9: I think the two models I think of activate uptown. You know, Robert Earl still says today that was the best day he's ever had in business. A lot of those storefronts on our Teachable Boulevard, that was the best day that they had in business.
Speaker 9: And it was small enough to where, frankly, most of my staff did a lot of the logistics. Right. In terms of like booking vendors, things like that. We would need half of a beach street to put that on.
Speaker 9: We wouldn't need 120 K and we probably wouldn't take up as much special events time. So I would say and then the second piece, so I'm a little landlocked, right? So Border Bellflower, Lakewood, Compton, Paramount, Rancho Dominguez, you and me.
Speaker 5: I got gardens like quickly.
Speaker 9: So those opportunities to partner with other districts, I guess you only allow Atlantic Avenue for me, right? But Artesia Boulevard's been an important stretch. But I border six cities. No other council districts. And to be very clear, I envision I mean, we did activate uptown on Artesia was successful.
Speaker 9: I want to continue to do that. So I'm going to ask you I'm going to make a friendly that we change it from to we don't go all the way to five, like I said, but we take it up, kind of meet in the middle, we go to three.
Speaker 9: And so if we do three, we break it three ways and we and we remove the contingency that one contingency about cooperation, we can encourage it. Right. I love it. I ask council members that co-sponsoring partner with things all the time, but it may be limited in certain cases with certain corridor.
Speaker 9: So I say we don't do that. And and finally, I was unclear. Is there a matching component on this? Because I would support that people putting skin in the game to go after this funding.
Speaker 5: So the original intent was that there would have been. However, there's not a lot of. Programing funding available this year. As everyone is very aware, we're going into a deficit year with very, very little availability.
Speaker 9: Private, private fundraising.
Speaker 5: Or private fundraising and things.
Speaker 9: Okay. I mean, I think.
Speaker 5: I was just worried about a restriction for that. When we talk about divide by nine, that gets really crazy.
Speaker 9: Yeah, I'm not saying divide by nines. If there support in the community for the event, there's active mobility grants, things like that. Skaggs partnered on different things. Mobile Source Reduction Committee is in most of our cities, funded the city multiple times for these things.
Speaker 9: So and then we get sponsorships. So there's an opportunity for that. So you're you're okay with that.
Speaker 5: So I'm happy to add in giving that also some weight in their decision making process. Good.
Speaker 9: And going from 2 to 3.
Speaker 5: So that means that each one would be under 100,000.
Speaker 3: That's fine. Okay.
Speaker 9: You're not talking about spending a bunch of tax dollars.
Speaker 5: I'm just saying that in discussions with some of the community and stuff we recognize, I mean.
Speaker 9: Our are you saying that we did streets.
Speaker 3: Like that?
Speaker 5: There's just a lot of consideration given certainly in terms of last year, a lot of city wide events got structural a.S.A.P on an ongoing basis and not all council officers can prioritize that allocating the amount of stuff. And I know that when we did beat Streets, that went from the third all the way through the fourth and
Speaker 5: into the fifth. I mean, it was considerable stuff, resources for my team. I completely understand and agree and many of you have all commented, we're literally down to three staff each. Yeah, we all started with four. And so our council officers have also all taken cuts.
Speaker 5: Certainly I only say council.
Speaker 9: That's why I think the event scope of the event should go down some and not closing the door to a beat street got beat street started off grant funding. I think we need to do it.
Speaker 5: Well, I also agree with that and I know that part of our report back from our original budget was when grants come to us in the future, they should say, and when this money evaporates, we will discontinue them, or we will plan to look for general fund backfill.
Speaker 5: And I think those are very important decisions that we as a council make.
Speaker 2: Okay.
Speaker 9: So, yeah. So we're good, I understand. Accepted friendlies on those.
Speaker 2: Yes. If we can clarify, we're going from 2 to 3. We're removing the part that says collaboration of multiple districts.
Speaker 5: I think it's just we're we're still encouraging it. So we're just adding another component. None of these are mandatory. These are all components that are encouraged.
Speaker 2: And then we're adding to Metro grants and funding and or other funding. Correct. Okay. Understood. Other matching funding and that's them is accepted. Great.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Can I ask a quick just clarifying question on this one issue before we leave it? I support the efforts happening. I think that's fine. I just want to also make sure that this is inclusive, obviously, because I'm through through metro will be able to really supplement a lot of these dollars, which we're working on already
Speaker 0: . So that's already in the works. I just wanted this. This isn't essentially eliminating beach streets. No, I mean, beach streets there. We're still going to have beach streets. It's just that we're changing the way the funding works and the event.
Speaker 0: So that gives us more flexibility to have smaller events. But we could also it does not eliminate the possibility of us having a larger beach street if we wanted to as well. And we'll work with Metro to get additional funding as well, because.
Speaker 3: It also doesn't.
Speaker 5: Mean that the money would be shaved proportionately.
Speaker 0: And I get that. Absolutely. So I do want to clarify, I know there's a lot of beach rights fans out there. So a lot of this is not an elimination of beach rates.
Speaker 9: Off Beach Street.
Speaker 0: Absolutely. And that was one of the best events we ever had. And so it's just looking at funding differently and we'll continue to get more grants. So I appreciate that conversation. Thank you.
Speaker 9: Thank you. So so next so I want to talk about and and I'll put this up a certain way. So I want to talk about the youth development stuff. I think there's a lot of conversation there, and I know that everybody's not on the same page.
Speaker 9: I'm going to try to get folks on the same page. But if not, I want to hear from the council. You guys want to divide the question on this and do this separately? Because because what I don't want to do is get in a situation where people you know, where people are threatening to not support the whole
Speaker 9: thing or not in a position to support the whole thing, because this is a difficult, difficult issue. Is there any interest in like let.
Speaker 5: Me help with a little bit of context. So the intent is at this point that that.
Speaker 0: Is just great. I know the city attorney's saying that Councilmember Richardson has the floor. So I want to make sure that. Are you are do you want to continue?
Speaker 9: Yeah, I want to talk about the in the question if it's necessary or not.
Speaker 0: Well, I think I mean.
Speaker 9: It's or maybe to determine that what motion to divide the question is it has a support will divide the question. If not, then we'll just continue discussion. So I want to at this moment move to the divide, the question on the Youth Development Fund and handle that separately.
Speaker 0: Okay. So there's a motion divide. The question this is just to divide the question, not to actually vote yes on that. Okay.
Speaker 9: Give a little more flexibility, I.
Speaker 0: Think, because this is something that is something new related to the budget that we have the public comment on that or we've done public comment all of the budget. I think we're fine, right? Yeah. Okay, then members, please go ahead and.
Speaker 5: Get in here a second and I get a second question. If there's a second thing, I'd like to speak against it.
Speaker 0: Okay. Is there good.
Speaker 9: I see a few seconds. Okay.
Speaker 0: I think there's a second. Okay. Okay. There's the motion in a second. Divide the question. I think you've already spoken to your first councilor.
Speaker 9: The two divide in the question.
Speaker 0: Divide the question. Again, this is just a divide. The question of Councilman Andrew's. Any comment or vice mayor, any comments? Okay, Councilman Mongo.
Speaker 5: So I would just say that the block does a significant amount of work in trying to create a package that is representative of the whole city. And I appreciate that. Dividing the question on items can be helpful for individuals getting more or less support for their items.
Speaker 5: But I just don't feel that it's very respectful of the processes that we've already set up. And so I would ask that. I would ask that we hear your options of what you want to make a recommendation on and colleagues can comment on whether or not they support it.
Speaker 5: And then the maker of the motion can choose to accept or not. But what I hope we don't do is take 35 items and start separating out the question, because if we're going to vote on every item, I think that the total package becomes very different.
Speaker 5: And so that would be my proposal. I already feel like. The process that has gone on today has been very it won't happen again next year because this has not been what has standardly happened. And I give a lot of credit to the condensed timeline that we've encountered, but I just don't feel like the way that it's
Speaker 5: gone about has been equitable.
Speaker 0: So there's a motion to divide the question on the floor by Councilman Richardson and Vice Mayor Andrews. Can we can we get it up on the screen? Madam Clerk. So just a divide, this.
Speaker 9: Divide the question.
Speaker 2: It's my understanding the divide the question would take out on the box recommendation under a subsection E on the funding for the child and youth support. Is that correct? Yes.
Speaker 0: Okay. Members, just go and cast your votes. Motion carries question is divided. So control Richardson continue.
Speaker 9: All right. So on the Youth Development Fund conversation so I don't think we're that far away. I just think we have different understandings on sort of the intent here. So number one.
Speaker 0: Just real quick, should we should we have that conversation? We discuss it next. When we actually discuss the discuss.
Speaker 9: Discussion next, that's fine. So. City Attorney, are we fighting question?
Speaker 2: Yes, we've divided the question in the I think the motion was to divide the question and handled this separately at this time and then go back. Okay. I thought it was I thought.
Speaker 0: It was to handle it after this.
Speaker 9: So I was doing it. This is knock it out. Okay. So okay, so on this fund, so to say that after the community has advocated and organized, to say that the official channel is a commission, a commission that hasn't you know, that is just being restructured to say that that's the official process went through the through that
Speaker 9: entire process. We know that that commission hasn't had quorum that issues and is just being presenting that actually says it's entirely vacant on city on the city website right now to say that and then to imply that today after not having provided that opportunity through the budget process, after we've presented that, hey, we acknowledge the concern of
Speaker 9: the community and we want to hear from the communities, the proponents of this about how to spend it when they organize and present it. We should on principle respect that. Now to say we want to include include the commission.
Speaker 9: I think that absolutely makes sense to me. We have a commission. We should include the commission, but a lot of commissions do engage in strategic planning work. For example, the Veterans Affairs Commission at this point is no strategic plan work.
Speaker 9: The Sustainability Commission has a strategic plan. There's money in the budget tonight for Parks and Recreation, the Marine strategic plan that their commission will engage in. And so the proposal from the community is that if we're going to establish a youth development fund, this is not a lot of money.
Speaker 9: So it rather be used as a strategic planning process. Now that strategic planning process, if driven by the Youth Commission, if driven by the Health Department, could be and I would envision that that process should be inclusive of all youth across the city.
Speaker 9: I don't think anyone has said it's going to be exclusive, any particular, particular subset of youth. And so that said, I'm not comfortable tonight moving forward and sort of not acknowledging the really sort of dynamic engagement that we've received.
Speaker 9: If you notice the people's budget and the Invest in Youth Commission, Invest in Youth Coalition, they ask to be in the process on all of those items were large and they've paid attention to every one of our meetings.
Speaker 9: They've met with this and they've tailored, tailored to what they think is feasible and and would be accommodated by this council. And I think we should acknowledge that. So so I would like to see and I would like to see that that $200,000 be allocated to a strategic planning process anyway, inclusive of everyone, including the new commission
Speaker 9: , inclusive of everyone. But with our proponents that proposed it at the table, a strategic planning process over a two year period, it may come back that you may not need all $200,000 to conduct the strategic planning. It may be $100,000.
Speaker 9: It may be less. Who knows? But that's the intent of this. Secondly, the proposal on seniors, I support that. I just think we need to be very clear that that's very distinct and different. So I wouldn't want to see those two linked up together.
Speaker 9: A youth commission and a senior youth development fund and a senior fund merged together may be a bit unclear. It may be hard to target that fund. So I support the 100 K for seniors and looping in the senior citizen commission.
Speaker 9: That makes sense, but that should be separate that in my opinion, that should be separate from the youth fund. So you got. Well, it was unclear to me if if is that is that the case? I believe it is present.
Speaker 9: Believe get it together.
Speaker 0: I believe they're separate.
Speaker 9: I'm good with that. I'm good with that. So that's my friendly councilwoman to the youth fund. I'd like to hear your response, though. Friendly.
Speaker 2: So it would be a separate motion. You two.
Speaker 4: Separate motion.
Speaker 9: Okay, I'm doing I move that we allocate the 200 K, we allocate the 200 K for a strategic youth development strategic planning process in concert with our Youth Commission as well as youth citywide and in partnership with the Investing Youth Coalition.
Speaker 9: Right.
Speaker 0: And that and I just want to clarify, and that doesn't preclude any other youth from the city or it doesn't, including in any book that just allows us to get started. And that's what clarify what he heard from you.
Speaker 9: Absolutely. And and there is I don't mind any particular department engaging in this. I think Parks and Rec should be at the table for talking talking those things. But almost every one of our strategic plans we mentioned the health department's engaged in, not necessarily off the equity has been different, you know, different bureaus within the health department
Speaker 9: . And so that's built up a lot of community respect and credibility, I think some that we count on. So I think that department should play some lead role in this. Other departments could totally be at the table, engage, but I think that is respective of what the communities proposed, I think is consistent with and correct me if
Speaker 9: I'm wrong, Mr. Mayor, but, you know, it's consistent with how you presented it. And that's my motion.
Speaker 0: That that that's consistent with what I'm hearing. Just to clarify, I'm hearing that the money essentially would go to a strategic planning process.
Speaker 9: Strategic Points has been.
Speaker 0: Discussed at the council and by the community. The youth commission would be involved.
Speaker 9: Absolutely.
Speaker 0: The youth groups that have been that brought it to the table would be involved. And of course, a citywide, citywide input and process from youth.
Speaker 9: From across all nine across.
Speaker 0: The city. And that staff has the flexibility to guide that process through our departments. We have multi departments that we're I.
Speaker 2: Think it's you're also city manager, but.
Speaker 0: You're also you're also asking of course that in that process there consider all departments, including our health department. Our you're not saying specifically is going somewhere but staff's going to guide.
Speaker 9: Yeah, the funding itself is going to go to a consultant. I know departments.
Speaker 0: I get that through. You're not directing it to, but we.
Speaker 9: Want to specifically call out help.
Speaker 0: I get that. But we're not.
Speaker 9: Excluding anyone else.
Speaker 0: I get it. And you also call that Parks and Rec and others. Okay. I'm good with that. All right. That is that is the that is a motion that's on the floor. There's the motion. And a second to that.
Speaker 0: I'm assuming those that are cued up are on the other.
Speaker 9: That was for the other debate. No.
Speaker 0: Okay. So any why don't you raise your hand really quick if you want to speak to the current motion as it as it's presented? Let me go to Mr.. Go down this way. Okay, so let's turn this and go down.
Speaker 0: Councilman Austin.
Speaker 8: Thank you. And I think I understand the motion. I just want to just just I've been doing a little bit of research here and I've found some some interesting, interesting information that, you know, we're not actually re-inventing, reinventing the wheel this evening.
Speaker 8: The youth fun it was was created or existed many, many years ago, many years ago, and was probably cut. And, you know, I think our efforts tonight are restored. But, you know, looking at the old website, this was a National Gold Medal Award winner program through our Parks Recreation and Marine Department.
Speaker 8: The Youth Fund was created to provide funding for local, local youth to create and develop projects that address this community. Issues and challenges. The fund would offer grants led by and projects led to be planned out and led by the Youth and the Commission on Youth and Children currently oversee.
Speaker 8: Sees the Long Beach Youth Fund Youth Commissioners selected by an adult commissioners will review the projects that are submitted. So the point is I don't think we're reinventing the wheel this evening. And the idea that came to us through the people's budget was was something that was already in place.
Speaker 8: And so I think everybody here supports funding youth programs and funding our youth to be more engaged, you know, in our city. I mentioned earlier that we do commit a lot of resources already to our youth through our libraries, to our parks and recreation departments, developing improving new parks, developing new parks and improving existing parks through our
Speaker 8: workforce development. There's a lot of a lot of efforts and a lot of focus on youth. And this is this this fund will increase that or just add to what we are already doing. And but I wanted to to point that out.
Speaker 8: I feel pretty, pretty strongly that that the commission needs to be continued to be involved in this process. And I'm glad that that you're finding some flexibility to to to engage other departments. And so. I'll support.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Vice Mayor Andrews? Yes.
Speaker 4: Also, not to be repetitive, I just want to follow through with our councilman Rex, you know, friendly. I definitely think that we should make sure that our youth continue to receive whatever. But the mayor's put into his budget and and I'm looking forward to really supporting this 100%.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Vice Mayor, let me just get going down the road. If people want to speak, just raise your hand. Councilman Pierce. Oh, there you said it. Well, Cosmo Pierce, you're up next.
Speaker 3: Anyway, so.
Speaker 5: Yes, thank you. I just want to echo my support for this, and I think I know that we tend to have a group of of community members that come out and speak from one part of the neighborhood. But I do think putting it with with the full city process, with the multiple departments and using the commission is
Speaker 5: a great way to ensure that everybody and it is true that every part of our city, the youth in the West Side, need something different than youth on the East Side, but that this fund is geared towards youth and our entire city.
Speaker 5: I think that that's. No one has said otherwise. So I fully support this, and I hope that all the colleagues here can support this. And I also want to I know that we're doing the youth here, but we also have the part about 100 K, which I think is a separate motion.
Speaker 5: But I like where we're going as well. I'm saying I like that that we are looking holistically at our city. So thank you and thank you for all the youth that are still here and for all those watching at home.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Let me let me add anything we got to Councilman Price also. I think it's it's and it's certainly my intention as a as a new youth commission reforms the youth and children that it's reflective of the entire city.
Speaker 0: And so you're going to have everyone at the table, I think, as well, to work. We'll work really hard at that. Councilman Price.
Speaker 6: Okay, so thank you. So just so I'm supporting what I'm hearing, I'm just don't have a lot of clarity on. A lot of words have been spoken. So is there are a request that it be housed in a particular department or is everyone just kind of going to work together on it?
Speaker 9: Is that a question for me?
Speaker 6: Yes, I guess.
Speaker 9: Okay.
Speaker 6: The city manager's office.
Speaker 4: So.
Speaker 9: So the money's not going to be housed anywhere if I guess it's multiple departments. City manager I'm hearing over here can run point. The community is requested that a health lens health equity lens whatever it is is applied to it and that the health department being a lead role.
Speaker 9: I think that's naturally going to happen if we sort of give that direction that that's the way you want it to happen. I think other departments will obviously play a role. Parks and Recreation obviously needs play a role.
Speaker 9: I think workforce will play a role if it's a really holistic, comprehensive, strategic plan. There's a number of departments that touch our PD can play a role.
Speaker 2: Know and a staff would suggest you just assign this to the city manager and we'll figure out who needs to be at the table. So we definitely here the health should be at the table, Parks and Rec, all the partners that were mentioned.
Speaker 2: So we'll make sure with that happens.
Speaker 9: Good. I'm good with that.
Speaker 6: Great. And if I could request from staff and I'm assuming this is included, it's implied, but I want to explicitly stated that every council district will be engaged with the process so that we can make sure to advertise and involve our youth because they may not be as organized as in some of the other districts and may
Speaker 6: not be an advocacy group associated with them. So we want to make sure we get them to the table. So as long as we're all engaged, I think that would be great. And in terms of a strategic plan, and I guess I will ask this for clarity from Councilman Richardson, what do you envision that.
Speaker 7: The strategic plan would do? Like what?
Speaker 6: What would it have recommendations for what?
Speaker 9: So the strategic planning processes that I've seen happen in the city, they come and help articulate a vision and a strategy to get there. And a lot of cities that have doubled down on youth development, they've established youth development strategies like how do you take the status quo, address the issues related to our youth, the current issues
Speaker 9: , the programs, and have a strategy to drive it proactively. We've done a lot of work around youth from youth violence prevention my brother's keeper, my sister's keeper, all that thing. I believe this just allows us an opportunity to have a more holistic look at youth development.
Speaker 9: I personally, I love this proposal because the youth, you know, have talked about it. They've engaged in it, they've bought into it. There's operated they're willing to work with others. They're optimistic about the future. They can go off to college or whatever they're doing and look back at the implementation of this.
Speaker 9: When our council, the next council, does it and say, I helped shape the future of these youth. So I think this is as I'll still quote from Pat, I think this is as apples, motherhood, apple pie as we can as we can make it.
Speaker 9: But ultimately, that that could create a roadmap to be more intentional about youth development. We could envision youth development departments. We could envision, you know, taking another look at teen centers. How does this work with the. Parks and Rec strategic plan.
Speaker 9: I think now is just the perfect time to do it.
Speaker 3: Mm hmm.
Speaker 6: No, and I agree with you on the vision. I couldn't agree with you more on what the potential of it is. I just wanted to kind of get an idea of. So I would hope that the strategic plan, although.
Speaker 6: Yes, absolutely. We want to get a holistic view. We also want to get a plan that's very targeted to the diverse needs of the population throughout the city, because there may be different stressors in one part of the city as others, that we might need to augment support for our youth on.
Speaker 6: Mm hmm. And so I would hope that that engagement and this is really for for our city manager's office in terms of developing a strategic plan that I would hope that the focus would be on having recommendations that are targeted towards specific needs in different areas, whatever those limiting factors are for for the youth to strive in
Speaker 6: that particular area. But I think it's a great program. I love that the youth are involved and that they brought it forward. I couldn't agree with you on all of that, gives them a real sense of pride in their city.
Speaker 6: So I think it's great and I'm I'm glad that the city manager's office is going to be overseeing it, because I think it does touch upon multiple departments. So thank you for that recommendation. Sure.
Speaker 2: And we'd like to request that it be up to 200,000 for a strategic plan. If we're able to do the strategic planning for less than we'd like to reserve some of that funding for implementation of that plan.
Speaker 9: Sure. I'm good with that.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next up is Councilman Mongo.
Speaker 5: So I appreciate the dialog, but I would also say that while I appreciate the one recommendation in requests that came from one group, there were also dialogs with both that group and other council officers, including, but not limited to another motion which was already approved, I think, which talks a lot about the teen centers and the opportunities
Speaker 5: and the funding and the derivative of giving the strategic planning money to Parks and Rec. Was that part of knowing and understanding what Parks and Rec has is that those student fighters, 25, 15 years old and so. I'll I'll just say that I appreciate the opportunity to continue to put that into.
Speaker 5: The city manager's office. But that, I think, also needs to be a bit of respect for the dialog that actual council members have had with the community group that you're stating their position. Because I've actually sat with and had those conversations and at no time did they request a strategic plan.
Speaker 5: And when I met with them and listened and talked through some of the the youth opportunities across multiple departments, just like we're talking about now, whether it's libraries, parks and Rec, afterschool programs, teen center, all of that. I also then went into those communities including but not limited to McBride and MacArthur and some of the other areas
Speaker 5: . And we kind of talked through where could a pilot program be? I then researched and talked with department heads who were open to housing those pilot programs, and then went back to specific council members who are willing to use the their community centers as a pilot program.
Speaker 5: And that's kind of where the recommendation for Vice Mayor Andrews Teen Center to be a pilot program in that process. And so I appreciate and respect all the work that you've done on this. And I only wish that you would have given me that same respect to keep it as a part of the original motion coming out
Speaker 5: of the BSA.
Speaker 0: Thank you. I think back to Councilmember Tauranga.
Speaker 2: Actually first time coming on this. But we're saying.
Speaker 0: Sorry.
Speaker 2: It's getting it's getting late. My wife would just text me. She's going to bed. So I guess she stopped seeing, which I guess a good thing for me is stop texting me in this conversation. I got lost in terms of I thought this was about not only youth programs but also senior services.
Speaker 2: And it got sort of bifurcated. And we start talking about the youth programs or whatever to senior seniors, a component.
Speaker 9: That's a separate motion.
Speaker 2: So it's going to be a vibrant motion. Okay, then I can support this back.
Speaker 0: Get back to Katherine Richardson.
Speaker 9: Okay. Just quickly, just two things. So, one, the Invest and Youth Coalition gave us a flier today with the position has evolved over time. Initially they're asking for half a million dollars. Right. Obviously, through the conversation, it was infeasible.
Speaker 9: But today it says include the proposed 200 K in seed funding for the Long Beach Children Youth Fund to develop a community driven, youth led strategic plan. So just so we're clear, this is the same coalition, the same original proponent.
Speaker 9: So I'm not speaking for them. I'm literally lifting this from the request that is developed. So that's one. And then secondly, that the goal wasn't to pull this aside, but I heard that there was contention in the the first time we touched on it.
Speaker 9: So we wanted to just have a pure conversation here. But, you know, I have seen it since has come up. I've seen that I think there's some misunderstanding about the role of the Budget Oversight Committee. Frankly, the Budget Oversight Committee is not the dog and the councilors tails the other way around.
Speaker 9: The council is the dog and the Budget Oversight Committee is the tail. So we're not at the kiddy table because we're not on the Budget Oversight Committee. This is the big table and this is where we have an opportunity to weigh in on things.
Speaker 9: So I just want to be crystal clear. I respect your role as the Budget Committee, but I have a job to do as a member of the full body of the city council.
Speaker 5: Thanks, and I appreciate that.
Speaker 0: At the end here, Councilwoman Mongo got to me, Margo.
Speaker 5: I appreciate that. And I also hope that. But there's a part of recognizing that a conversation evolves over time. And at a council there's an EP or an up or down vote on a lot of things, and that there's a considerable amount of time that goes into reading a 500 page report, meeting with each constituency group, each
Speaker 5: of those things. And so I appreciate that the people's budget has evolved because I think that part of the reason it has evolved is through discussions with council members and recognizing that there is just point in time options of what can be done in a six week budget process, and that typically they're not a six week budget
Speaker 5: process, but that. But I'll leave it at that for now.
Speaker 0: Thank you. There's a there's a motion and a second. Members, please cast your votes on the motion.
Speaker 1: Councilwoman Pryce. Emotion carries.
Speaker 4: With.
Speaker 0: Emotion carries. That's the that's his care of the question that was that was split up so that we're going back to the rest of the BFC recommended.
Speaker 2: That's correct. And if I could get a point of clarification on the there was a motion by Councilmember Pearce for to add three items. I didn't have a so that.
Speaker 0: That hasn't been that that's not an official motion yet. It was not a friendly but it was never came to light.
Speaker 5: So what's on the table now?
Speaker 0: So I think now we're back. Now we're back.
Speaker 2: And so I for.
Speaker 0: And councilor and so let me so let me go back so we're back to the original conversation of the PSC recommendations. I think Councilman Richardson, who's put the question, we're back to Councilman Richardson on the PSC recommendations.
Speaker 2: Correct. And so what I if the friendly was accepted by CD two or not, there would be part of the conversation that I.
Speaker 0: Think it's part of the conversation. But there was not an official, a friendly that was asked.
Speaker 5: I think they recognize that this list is about to get long and so I'm going to put them all down.
Speaker 2: We've accepted some well, with all my friends, I know all of them have been accepted except for the member Councilmember Pearce's. So I need to know whether it's accepted or not so that that's what's on the floor. I don't know what's on the floor.
Speaker 5: So I would only say that the only thing that's been accepted from General Fund at this time would be the African American Fund.
Speaker 9: There was the beach streets.
Speaker 2: There was beach streets.
Speaker 5: But there wasn't any funding changes.
Speaker 9: No, no funding things without cause.
Speaker 5: I'm not sure I'm going to pull the funding from or put it from yet based on all the requests, if that makes sense. Mango Because there wasn't a revenue source associated with the request, right?
Speaker 2: And he has three items for the $222,000 that the councilmember from the second District has on there. And so that's the question. You've accepted one and on another. Yeah, I.
Speaker 0: Mean, listen, it's my impression that that hasn't been accepted yet.
Speaker 5: I can't accept any recommendation that doesn't come with the funding that.
Speaker 2: Has not been accepted.
Speaker 3: Right.
Speaker 0: And but it's still part of the conversation.
Speaker 5: It is still available for potential funding should one be proposed?
Speaker 0: Okay. Let me go back to let me go back to Governor Richardson.
Speaker 9: I have I don't have much more. So just want to touch on the the 50,000 dedicated for the revenue outreach conversation related to homelessness and housing. So just to be clear, this was the this was the same 50 K that was outlined in staff presentation two weeks ago on housing revenue options.
Speaker 9: Is that everybody's understanding? This is city attorney Mr. Modica Yes. Okay. Just wanted to be clear, that's that funding to conduct this process, that's all it is. And then and I just wanted to say that I do support of Councilwoman Pearce's a few things.
Speaker 9: The one that I'm familiar with is the 35 K, but it sounded like you said you wanted to make it structural. I thought the proposal was to take one times to add it to that structural part time and make it full time.
Speaker 9: But on a one time basis, right, you still have that permanent structural part time. So just to be clear, that's what that's what you're proposing one time. Okay. All right. That piece I support I support that. Not familiar with the other stuff.
Speaker 9: And I support that. Thanks.
Speaker 0: Taking a turn. This now comes from Birmingham.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mayor. Obviously, there's a lot of moving parts. We talk about a lot of different parts of this of this budget, as we discussed earlier. Couple of things that, you know, are related to my district that I think I need to to address.
Speaker 2: One of them is the Beat Street, and I'm glad the mayor brought it up because it wasn't funded at one time, totally and completely by Metro. And it came in as a part of a of a grant that they offered to have these streets in Long Beach based on another program that they had somewhere else going in
Speaker 2: Los Angeles. If I'm not if I'm not mistaken, on the history of a B streets here in Long Beach, I don't think the intent was to institutionalize it within a long we can have. Allow me to pick it up as a as a as a as an ongoing budget expense for Beach Street.
Speaker 2: And the only reason I say that is because certain districts in the city are able to have, because of their corridors, are able to have a beach street event that goes multi districts. I don't have that. In fact, the last district that the last beaches we had that covered eight, nine and seven, I only had like two
Speaker 2: blocks. I mean, and there was it was two blocks. It had very little impact in terms of business opportunities for those vendors to have any kind of significant financial impact for them. So I'm I'm liking the discussion that we might break it down to, to break it down, downsize it a little bit and go from 2 to
Speaker 2: 3. But I also want to make sure that at least I have a corridor in my district that would be able to sustain a beach street like event. I have two major corridors. I have actually three but two major corridors in the seventh District that I would like to see having a beach street like event.
Speaker 2: I have Wardlow and I have Santa Fe as two business corridors in my district, not as developed or as as expansive as maybe Atlantic or Anaheim or those kinds of street are covered multi, multi district. But I would like to have at some time an opportunity to sponsor a, b streets like that in the seventh District that
Speaker 2: would be beneficial to my communities in those areas. So I'm throwing that out there as a as a as a friendly amendment that we include corridors that that our business corridors in districts that may not be able to in corridors and may not be as extensive or lengthy that covered multi multidistrict areas.
Speaker 2: So I want to make sure that the seventh District is included in that discussion and we have that that type of and we believe that language about corridors is in there already. Okay, wonderful. The other other issue they're talking about, Councilmember Pearce has already brought these up.
Speaker 2: As a former member of the health department, I saw the the the the detriments that the the defunding of the vehicle license fees did on a lot of programs in the health department, mainly that were talking about STDs testing and community outreach.
Speaker 2: And I want to support and second Councilmember Pierce's motion or friendly to include those in in this budget because it's important I mean we lost a major funding source when it came to the bike to the vehicle license fees that funded these at a very high level.
Speaker 2: At one time, we had full time staff providing those kinds of services and that went away. So and obviously the disease hasn't gone away or the need for it to address STDs has not gone away. So I certainly can support that that friendly for that as well.
Speaker 2: And also, you beat me to the gun and the 35,000 for the language access program and make it a full time. I certainly support that because it's been a it's been an ongoing discussion now for a number of years, and it's time that we address it and get it fully funded.
Speaker 2: And those are my only comments at this point. Thank you. Thank you, Constable Pearce.
Speaker 5: I yes. Thank you. So it is late. So I'm going to clarify what my comments were earlier and hopefully we can have that conversation. So one is the 3541 time funding for language access, as Councilmember Gallagher just mentioned, to make that a full time position to after having some conversations, I think what would be a great way
Speaker 5: . In for our health of our community is $30,000 one time funding.
Speaker 3: For the.
Speaker 5: Mobile center and the community outreach, and that our health department can work with the county to try to leverage some other funds to get those other two positions that the Kelley and I have been talking about. So that those are my that is my family, I guess, that I am asking for support on.
Speaker 5: What leads into the structural is that. Yeah, it's exactly what I said earlier with the the funding to be able to make it a full time position but that the 35 K adds on to what is already there to make it a full time position.
Speaker 5: So just to to clarify. There is only so much contingency, and it would be disingenuous for me to just say yes and put it at the bottom of the list without any likelihood that it would be funded. So what I would ask of you is that we are already beyond stretched of what is available, and so of
Speaker 5: your requests, what I would propose is to place the 30,000 of STD outreach and testing. You would only say that outreach, he said outreach and testing. Outreach, testing, mobile center. I mean, it's okay. There's a description that I think there is a little bit of room.
Speaker 5: There's not 240. I mean, we're already the city staff's current recommendation is that there's 500,000 available. We've already programed over 775,000. And so what I would ask is if we're if we're really trying to fit in, what's realistic that we have some consensus behind the city outreach and mobile testing unit?
Speaker 5: I do understand the significant VLF funding that it used to be and where we are today and the. Specific need to address Long Beach's unique position on this, unfortunately unique position in the growth versus the reduction over regions, and I would probably place it somewhere on either side of the African-American fund.
Speaker 5: Okay. So, I mean, I'll make my last pitch on. It's been a couple of weeks since we've heard, you know, the stats on where we are with STDs. We know that it's not only the LGBT community, but the African-American community, and that the numbers are increasing and that this is one of those times where you can actually
Speaker 5: put money somewhere and see an automatic decrease. And it's not necessarily on a values piece. And so I fully support the African-American Cultural Center, don't want to pit us against other items. But in a situation where we have our health department saying that we are at a crisis mode with STDs going up and $30,000 can help make
Speaker 5: a difference. You know, and I'm not sure if that's 15. Okay. Now that we can do. I know that shows that they have equal priority as the funding comes at the beginning. So if it came in at ten, they'd get five, each of it comes in at 60, they get 30 each or whatever.
Speaker 5: Is that fair? Does that work? I mean, it does work viably in terms of, well, I understand and you're giving out the budget. But I mean, does that work in terms of reaching the goal that it's intending to work?
Speaker 5: So are you saying that the funding has to be in step levels? Like if it was 10,000, it wouldn't work at all? It has to be. My question for for like two.
Speaker 3: And eight to do with that, I get it here. So. So each increment, I mean, it's not incremental base. It's it's just the ability to have increased access and testing out in the community. So when we the original conversation was 15,000 for testing and.
Speaker 4: 15,000.
Speaker 2: For outreach.
Speaker 3: So the testing is very important.
Speaker 4: As is the outreach. So we could combine that in whatever, whatever that is possible. 30 would be a.
Speaker 2: Good start and of course we need a lot more than that. 30 would be a starting place.
Speaker 3: But if were 20, we take 20.
Speaker 2: And then for a language access plan that's a non-career position and we would just be adding hours so it wouldn't be a.
Speaker 4: Know that the.
Speaker 3: Language text, the language access program, the language access.
Speaker 2: Program is currently non.
Speaker 3: Career.
Speaker 4: But it you can't go past they're already topped out at 1600 hours so we'd have to make a full time.
Speaker 5: And there at.
Speaker 3: The one because then.
Speaker 2: That one would have to be $35,000. It has to be 35,000.
Speaker 3: It can't be less.
Speaker 5: And so so my thought was that we are already funding it at 160 this year and that any other incremental would have to be supported by potentially an additional staff member so that it's not at a rate that's so much higher, if that makes sense.
Speaker 5: And so at this time, what I would ask is for us to wait for the report to come back, because one of the things that we talked about with the community and their budget priorities was there's currently over $800,000 of language programing in the city that's really not accounted for.
Speaker 5: And so before we talk through what those priorities are, to get that report back from the H.R. staff and then kind of walk through it again when we have that and that should be coming back in the next few weeks.
Speaker 5: So that's I would just say that we'll actually no closer to what year end we are in. Money will look like we'll know a bunch more things. And so at this time what I'd like to do is accept the friendly for the $30,000 contingency STD outreach.
Speaker 5: And testing to be prioritized at the same level as the African-American cultural support. And then for the 30.
Speaker 9: The hours.
Speaker 5: You don't in doing the specific request of Councilmember Austin with the 35,000 request of LAPD to come back as a part of the full picture that we've already motion.
Speaker 0: For comment until 8 p.m..
Speaker 4: Sure. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Look, let me add something, because I understand what what we're trying to get to. So I think first, I do appreciate I think that that's a good addition to the budget. So thank you, Councilmember. I think that those those needs are really important.
Speaker 0: I think what what I have heard from Councilmember Pearce and others on the council is that as we as we're looking at the language access program, the real need might not just be adding a bunch of money to translate documents, but the need is actually to to ensure that there's a person actually doing the work that's consistent
Speaker 0: within a language access policy and that's actually doing work, going out and actually implementing some of this work, not just money from translation services. Now, that's what I've heard of from, you know, from, from folks. And so I think and Mr. Modica, correct me if I'm wrong, but with this new money coming in, I think you guys
Speaker 0: are going to be reviewing the dollars that are coming in from language access and looking at if this is actually a possibility and what that could look like in the future and kind of assessing how we expand now that we have more dollars, how we expand what we're actually doing.
Speaker 0: And I know that you're going to come back to the council to give an update on that. So hopefully, if that's what we're going tonight, that those we can have that conversation about where we're going when this comes back to the councils.
Speaker 0: Is that a correct assessment?
Speaker 2: Yes. So we were we were asked to come back with some information on a current bilingual pay and how we're currently allocating that money. Then and then Bossi was recommending that the LPI money first be used to kind of make that do that review and then come back.
Speaker 2: That is, as we understand Bossi motion.
Speaker 3: And.
Speaker 5: From considerable community meetings and community outreach and input related to some of the frustration we're hearing in the community with not seeing the results that they had hoped for with the amount of money that's been allocated to date.
Speaker 5: So, yes, absolutely.
Speaker 0: Okay. So I think I think I know where we're at with the conversation. So I think that's where we're going. But we're still doing some some research on on the issue as well. So let me let me go back to the.
Speaker 2: And then Councilmember. I'm sorry, Mary, can we get some clarification on where this falls in the priority order having it equal with the African-American Museum?
Speaker 0: Well, we haven't. We have that. We haven't.
Speaker 2: Made it. We just need some direction. Where does it.
Speaker 0: Go? There is we're still having the conversation, but there is not yet any additional funding that's been set aside on language access besides the 160. That's I believe it's one 6180.
Speaker 2: I'm sorry. I was referring to the mobile phone or the mobile that is.
Speaker 0: Being that is right where the African-American museum is.
Speaker 2: So then it is said, okay, so it is seniors then, right? We try to trace them right below. It is right below. I think it needs to be above or below. It's right below. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Okay. Just yes. Okay. So let's go back now to. Yeah, nothing is nothing the above. Another thing, they're all important. They're all going to get funded. So, Councilor Pierce.
Speaker 5: I'm like, I don't even know. No, I'm I don't want to be right out. And I and I know that Councilmember Austin has been working for a long time on his project. So I want to respectfully, for the group, say that I am happy to go after the African-American Cultural Center knowing that we were all going to
Speaker 5: get to where we we need to get, and that I know that this is a priority for the whole community. So I just want to put that out there.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Well, we have a motion and a second for these recommendations, so please go ahead and cast your votes.
Speaker 1: Motion case.

Speaker 0: Thank you. Item 24.
Speaker 3: And I suppose we didn't want.
Speaker 4: To do that. Yeah.
Speaker 1: Communication from Vice Mayor Andrew's Chair, Housing and Neighborhoods Committee recommendation to approve renaming of the multi-use Sports Court and Marina Vista Park. The link to Sue Johnson Court.
Speaker 0: Vice Mayor Andrews Thank you.
Speaker 4: Me I'd like to turn this over to Councilman Pierce for this price.
Speaker 3: Excuse me.
Speaker 6: Katz Councilwoman Price Thank you. And I want to thank the vice mayor for shepherding this item through the committee and having it here for us. This is kind of the final step of a very, very important item for me, my family and our entire community.
Speaker 6: Luke was an amazing young man. He was diagnosed with leukemia his first week at Wilson High School as a freshman. And he was involved in our Youth Participatory Budgeting Committee that selected the multi-use sport court. And unfortunately, he lost his battle with cancer.
Speaker 6: And we want to honor him by naming the court after him. We'll be having a dedication ceremony this coming Sunday at the park. And I thank my colleagues and again, especially Vice Mayor Andrews, for seeing this item through and making sure that it got here when it did, because the family's been really anxious for this process and
Speaker 6: very excited to have the opportunity to honor Luke as in a permanent space in the district. So thank you, everyone, for your support.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Is there any public comment on this? Yes, please. State your name, Larry. Good. You? I fully support this. I think it's an outstanding idea. No ifs, no answer, no votes. I raise a point of order.
Speaker 4: I believe the council the agenda calls for even before this item, whether it is, as it is called, calls for public comment. And I'd like to use that. I have signed up for public comment and this is the time, according to the clerk.
Speaker 4: At the public comment. Is appropriate.
Speaker 9: This is public comment for this item.
Speaker 4: No public comment in general. Having confidence that this is public comment for the item, as you said it has before this item has been was read. The public comment for open public comment. It should have been held first.
Speaker 4: Okay. Okay. You can go read it. All right. Thank you. Please. And that's one of my points more often than not. More often than not, the mayor handles the agenda. Like Seinfeld's Kramer enters and leaves a room. Period.
Speaker 4: That has to stop. That has to stop. No ifs, no answer, no buts. And I would as particularly important and during this comment and I would point out that it'll be we'll have to put up with them there for about another 80 about 16 to 18 months before the attorney general.
Speaker 4: Indict arrest him for the criminal complicity of Marines stated the raising of Marine Stadium to s. That's going to happen. No ifs. No arms, no buts. But as long as the mayor is here, he's got to stop. He has to follow the process.
Speaker 4: And again, not handling, as they say, like Seinfeld's Kramer enters and leaves a room. And I expect that. And I think the public's entitled to that. You can't jerk it around. When you do that, you end up with catastrophes.
Speaker 4: And on that, I'll end my point. But again, we should be giving consideration to who will be the new mayor in about eight to 12 to 18 months, if not sooner, if not sooner. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Speaker 4: Now we go back to the one item 24 together. Yeah, I do. We vote on this one.
Speaker 9: I'll just call for a vote.
Speaker 4: Please.
Speaker 3: No. No.
Speaker 0: Sorry.
Speaker 4: It's.
Speaker 0: Side. My entrance wasn't great. There's I think there's a there's emotion second to approval. And it was.
Speaker 1: The price.
Speaker 3: That was.
Speaker 0: Okay.
Speaker 1: Let's suppose not then motion carries Mengers on her chair.
Speaker 0: Am I.
Speaker 1: Councilman Mongo? Councilwoman Mangos? Yes.
Speaker 3: She's a yes. Oh.
Speaker 4: That's hmm.

Speaker 1: Motion carries.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next item is T3.
Speaker 1: Report from Schmidt Harbor. Recommendation received supporting documentation into the record and adopt a resolution authorizing the issuance of the harbor revenue refunding short term notes series 2018a and an aggregate principal amount not to exceed 350 million citywide.
Speaker 0: There's a there's a motion and a second. Mr. West has a short update on this.
Speaker 2: Yes, we have the port finance director, Sam John, and our city treasurer Dave Nakamoto and his assistant, Phil.
Speaker 8: Thank you, Mr. City Manager, Honorable Mayor and members of the City Council before you as a recommendation to receive supporting documentation into the record, adopt a resolution authorizing the issuance of harbor revenue refunding short term notes series 2018 A and a principal principal amount not to exceed $350 million and to authorize the execution of all necessary documents
Speaker 8: . The purpose of these notes is to refund the currently outstanding harbor revenue Short Term Notes Series 2014 six, which are scheduled to mature this November. City Council approval is requested on September 4th, 2018 to facilitate the timely payment of the 2014 See Notes.
Speaker 8: The 2018 notes will be secured solely by payment and so excuse me, so be secured and solely payable from the harbor department revenues. Annual debt service payments on the 2018 notes will be approximately $14.3 million. The city's general fund will not be liable for these debt service payments, and there is no local job impact associated with this
Speaker 8: recommendation. Representatives from the harbor and the finance team are available for questions. This concludes staff's report.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Gonzales.
Speaker 6: Thank you very much for the report.
Speaker 0: Councilmember Pierce.
Speaker 5: Thank you very much for the report, for staying up late and for having an awesome budget as well.
Speaker 0: You. Is there any public comment on this item C nonmembers, please go ahead. And Castro votes.
Speaker 1: Motion carries.
Speaker 0: Okay. Thank you. I was told by Mr. Modica that maybe the budget was coming down, but maybe, maybe not. We'll move on. Can we just poke your head out there and see if we're doing this or if we're not?

Speaker 2: I don't think he's ready yet.
Speaker 4: Okay.
Speaker 0: All right. Let's move on to the next item, please. Oh, maybe they already. Tom, did you guys have it ready or. No? Okay, let me go. Let me keep going with two more items. So let me just keep going.
Speaker 0: Item 26.
Speaker 1: Please. Communication from Councilwoman Price. Councilwoman Mingo. Vice Mayor Andrew's Councilman Austin. Recommendation to request a series of public safety measures designed to proactively address hotel worker safety concerns.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Price.
Speaker 6: Thank you. So these recommendations were actually drafted in November 2017, but I didn't bring them at that time. They followed a an October 2017 public safety meeting where we had a presentation from Long Beach PD and others regarding some of the measures that we felt were responsive to the comments that we had heard at the September 2017
Speaker 6: council meeting. And then we most recently heard a lot of similar comments. So the item actually speaks for itself. I'm not going to go into it in too much detail as it is late in the morning, in the night, early in the morning.
Speaker 6: But I'd ask my colleagues to support this measure. I think it's prudent and frankly, it addresses concerns that have been brought directly to the council and expands upon them. Thanks. Oh, I would ask that recommendation number four be removed because my understanding is that although it's not asking for the responding officer to be female, but that the
Speaker 6: officer taking the call be female, that that does present some resource limitations for our police department and serious that that's certainly not our intent. So we'd ask that it be approved absent number four. Thanks.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman. Councilman, Mongo.
Speaker 5: I appreciate that the entire council has consistently said that they support this, so it makes sense to bring it.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Council Member Pearce.
Speaker 5: I really wish it wasn't 1230.
Speaker 3: So can we go.
Speaker 5: To public comment? We have some people here first and then we can speak.
Speaker 0: Let me just first make the motion. Councilman Price, we came with it. Of course, the soup can't do public comment, so please come forward.
Speaker 3: Hello.
Speaker 0: Just a conclusion because it's just two folks. Great to see you. Okay, great speaker this close.
Speaker 3: Hello. My name is Zoe Nicholson. I live in Rose Park. I happen to be one of the three proponents of Measure WW. I'm going to briefly recap my understanding of what's happened so far. We spent four years discussing the protections for our hotel housekeepers, and over the last 13 months there were two failed voting rounds 5 to
Speaker 3: 4 against labor protections of ours, weight limits and square footage. Secondly. Decisions around sexual assault protections, specifically supported emergency alarms and working in pairs. So we did what we had to do after those failed votes. We spent 55 days collecting 46,000 votes.
Speaker 3: Just to show you that we're serious about this. The city of Long Beach counted those 46,000 votes. I was there most days as they did so those then went up to our Saint Louis County where the signatures were validated.
Speaker 3: They were able to stop at 43,000 plus because that's all that was required. This is a matter of record who voted against it. For those five people have registered and asked for this new ordinance. Here's my offer to you.
Speaker 3: Join us. Join us. Let's do what's right. Let's support labor protections. Let's support square footage protections. This is the week of Labor Day, after all. Let's do more than unsupported panic buttons. I've read this proposal several times. It says nothing about who's answering that call.
Speaker 3: But in fact, ordinance WW. Does. So I welcome you. Councilman Price. Councilman Mongo. Councilman. Deandra is vice mayor. I beg your pardon? And Councilmember Allyson, we'd be happy to welcome you to support the proposition that will be on the November six ballot signed by 43,000 members of the Lambert community, which, by the way, is more than voted
Speaker 3: in the last voting round. And let this go. This last ditch effort to be recognized that you care. Join us. We really care. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. NICHOLSON Next speaker, please. Our last speaker on this. Welcome back to the council.
Speaker 2: Dave Shukla on file.
Speaker 9: This is not my issue.
Speaker 2: Climate change, I believe, is a is a generative issue in the most fundamental sense. But since I was here for the hearing a few weeks ago and had to leave the room because I was shocked at the level of racism and outright.
Speaker 4: Castro. How do you say that word? Because you history case based reasoning, moral equivalency, equivocation there words for things. The whole point of.
Speaker 2: This effort, as I've seen it unfold in this town that I grew up in.
Speaker 4: With some of the people who like me, who look like me, would actually be the kids working some of the hotels and motels in question that are, as an industry, being asked to bear the brunt of a very.
Speaker 9: Specific set of players.
Speaker 4: Structural problems. If you don't include, for instance, square footage, you don't include work ratios, you don't include how structurally some people who are given sweetheart deals on land and all the rest that we all know the game with don't run the hotels very well.
Speaker 4: How do you expect an Indian kid respect defender, a shukla's son to look you in the eye? I mean, I mean, you'd literally be giving me or my most some of my friends a panic button to do what?
Speaker 4: Like tell our parents that somebody, you know, who you know, like, let's say in the nineties when all those bases closed and we didn't have that conversation about the peace dividend.
Speaker 2: That we should have.
Speaker 4: You know, we had epidemic levels of syphilis and gonorrhea and some of those people were having real problems and, you know, mental health, whatever you want to call it. Those would be the people who you'd have to ask your parents about, like, hey, you know, is it all right that they're walking by and causing problems for people
Speaker 4: here? I mean, there's all kinds of issues that people in storefronts in many parts of town see because they're externalized literally onto their doorstep. And some of them directly.
Speaker 2: Have to do with which players get to have which say at what time of day or night. I mean, for a town that wants to say.
Speaker 9: That we're making progress on women's issues in a town where we still have to like police ourselves, that rapists don't play.
Speaker 4: Beloved venues. Atonement has so many rape kids circuits just sitting around. I mean, please. How much longer are you going to tout yourselves as a place you want tourists to come, people to start new families, and you're not going to protect them at the most basic level.
Speaker 4: That's so obvious.
Speaker 0: Thank you. That concludes public comment. Let me go back to I guess I think it was that Councilmember Pearce who was speaking. So did you. I see you did. You were.
Speaker 3: But I'll speak.
Speaker 0: Well, you have you had the floor. So let me go back to you.
Speaker 5: Okay. So I think I want to take off from the conversation that that the comments that Zoe made. While I appreciate and I know there's been lots of conversations around, hey, we should make it for everybody. You know, I think that that is is a conversation that is a valid conversation.
Speaker 5: I have to go through this process where we ask, how do we end up here today after having it put on the supplemental and on a Labor Day weekend where none of us found out about it until yesterday?
Speaker 5: I have to ask the questions around how many of these hotels that are 50 rooms or less were outreach to my staff spent the day outreaching to 12 hotels in my district just to find out if there had been any community engagement through this process ever since 20.
Speaker 5: You know, what was that 2014 that we started talking about this policy, 2015, 2016 when it came here. The members of this council said we need more time. We need to engage more. The members of this council two weeks ago asked for a financial study so that we can look at the impacts.
Speaker 5: And then two weeks later, without that financial study or directing the city attorney to go forward with an ordinance. So for me, I'm struggling today with this item being what appears to be politics, playing with what hotel workers lives.
Speaker 5: And I know that that might not be the intention of some of the council members, but that's how it feels when it's done in this way after having two years of debate over it. So I have to get that part out because when I saw the item, I was personally offended at all the work that we have
Speaker 5: done and how far I thought we had come. And so I, I have to just put that out there first to say that I feel like we have been trying to get to a place of of healing and recognizing that the voters are going to vote on something.
Speaker 5: And in my mind, the best way to move forward would be let the voters vote on it, because God knows we've done the work. And then, too, after we get the financial report and after they the voters vote, that then we can say, okay, now let's apply this policy that's appropriate.
Speaker 5: So hotels of 50 rooms or less. So I have questions. Has any communication outreach been done with hotels of 50 rooms or less? Does this policy, the way that it's worded and leaves it vague, does it include Airbnbs?
Speaker 5: Does it include bed and breakfast? So those are my first two questions.
Speaker 0: Okay. So I think there's questions.
Speaker 5: I can ask all the questions or we can have a dialog around. I mean.
Speaker 0: Sure. I think if you want to maybe put all your questions out there and then we'll go from there.
Speaker 3: Okay.
Speaker 5: So all my questions, one is understanding why this has to happen.
Speaker 1: Today.
Speaker 5: After we've had a long budget meeting. What is the significance of the timing? My second question is, is there a legal concerns that having this vote while we have WW out there does put us at risk for making it look like we're dealing with politics and trying to make a position on the measure.
Speaker 5: Two or three is the item doesn't include. Let me get to my specific questions, not about politics. Language doesn't cover subcontracted workers, which is a major issue in the hotel industry. Is there a reason for not including subcontracted workers?
Speaker 5: It leaves off notification of guest, something that we know the hotels have lobbied against. But something that we know is a distract is a.
Speaker 1: Deterrent for people.
Speaker 5: If they see a sign, they're going to think twice. It's something that we.
Speaker 3: Fought really hard for with.
Speaker 5: Sex trafficking in the hotels. So is there something we can do about it? Amidst the retaliation language to protect housekeepers whenever they do speak up and it leaves out hotel workers ability for legal remedy if the law is not complied with.
Speaker 5: So those are policy questions that I think need to be answered. In addition to understanding from the city attorney, the timeline that we're working.
Speaker 3: With the council.
Speaker 5: Have requested that you come back in 30 days where we are with that 30 day report. Does that 30 day report include the impacts of hotels of 50 rooms or less? And what liability does that put the council out for voting on this?
Speaker 5: Now, while we're waiting on a measure to be voted on in November, I will leave those as my questions for now.
Speaker 0: Okay. So I know there's there's some questions in there that are probably for the city attorney and there might be some others are there for the makers of the motion. Maybe we should we keep going, maybe hear from the members or did you want to get those when I have a lot of questions answered now are.
Speaker 0: You want to just do those now? Okay, let me. I don't have those all in front of me. But do you want to start? I mean, Mr. City Attorney, do you want to maybe answer some of the questions that were posed to you?
Speaker 2: There's a number of questions that I wrote down that are either a policy question or the maker of the motion. Question on why the timing of this. The way I read the motion and the language here, it would not include Airbnb's.
Speaker 2: The legal concerns versus politics. I can't address the politics, but the legal concerns. This does cover areas that would not be covered by measure WW. And depending on what was adopted, if anything, was adopted by the City Council when a ordinance came back, if the measure WW applying to the larger hotels was more restrictive, that would apply
Speaker 2: . And so if you didn't have some of the other things that you brought up, that would be a policy decision to include in an ordinance such as the subcontractor, the notification language, the retaliation in the hotel, the legal remedies for the individual workers.
Speaker 2: All of those protections would apply to the hotels of 50 or more would not be required on the ordinance applying to the 50 or less unless council amended the ordinance at some point. So I'd need further direction from the City Council to if there were going to be ads and there would be an opportunity to do that
Speaker 2: one this evening or at first reading. And when that came back for the Council's consideration, if at that time the Council read it and either wanted to add things to it or change things to it, obviously we could do that at that time and we would come back depending on those changes by for another first reading if
Speaker 2: necessary.
Speaker 0: I can I can answer one of the questions in there and then someone quickly if I if I'm wrong. I think when when a initiatives is in front of voters all of that but that is passed by the voter essentially becomes kind of supersedes and become becomes the law.
Speaker 2: It would trump the ordinance.
Speaker 0: And then what if whatever whatever is presented in front of us that goes beyond the scope of what's in front of the voters would apply as long as it doesn't contradict anything that is currently in the other measure.
Speaker 0: And if it did this, it is superseded by whatever is actually implemented by the actual voters. So and that's the my understanding of the way I know this question came up when we had Measure M and May as well.
Speaker 0: And so that's.
Speaker 2: Correct. That was a little bit different because there are competing measures on the ballot.
Speaker 0: And I actually part of some of the council discussion that we were voting on when it came to the tacked to the tax structure. But I think that I think that that is the response as far as the voter initiative would always supersede if there were areas of conflict.
Speaker 0: And currently, I think that the the way our municipal code reads, motel, Airbnbs and bed and breakfasts are not considered motels. I think that's correct. Mr. City Attorney say lodging.
Speaker 2: And I think that the way I read this all hotel lodging employers including motels. I want some additional clarification on that, but I hope it doesn't indicate that they want Airbnbs in here. So we would go generally speaking, we would start with our municipal code definitions of those items, the hotel lodging employers, if we have that in
Speaker 2: motels and use that as our definition and then obviously come back for first reading if that's not the intent of the makers.
Speaker 5: So my other question was around the timing of the report in 30 days, how much information is coming back, what's going to be included in that? And then I'd like the maker of the motion to answer the questions around the policy.
Speaker 2: So the study, if on August 7th we were asked to do a study, it was originally a 30 day study, but then was kind of modified to give us a report of where we are in 30 days and come back with a study.
Speaker 2: So by next week we'll have an update to kind of the process and what we're doing. We expect the full study to be available to the Council by the beginning of October, probably first week of October 1st, second week of October.
Speaker 5: And does that study include hotels of 50 rooms or less?
Speaker 2: And as I understand it, we're doing some comparative analysis of some of the other ordinances that are out there. And some of those will be for hotels, 50 or under. I can ask John Kiser to further speak to whether or not, you know, what level of analysis we have for 50 or less.
Speaker 4: The honorable mayor and members of the city council. Yes. So. So we're working with our consultant on the scope of work and refining that now. We will be taking a look at how our ordinance is proposed, compares to some of the other ordinances out there, which are inclusive of different numbers of hotel rooms, as well as different
Speaker 4: square footage and different requirements that are included in their audiences. So what we'll get back. We're looking at Seattle, Chicago, Sacramento County, Miami, Las Vegas in New York City, all of which have ordinances. But they're all different in their own right.
Speaker 4: We'll compare our proposed ordinance to those other cities in and we'll have a matrix that will point out the similarities and differences. And then from that comparative review will also do an analysis of economic impact. So what these different proposed measures might do and how they might influence existing and proposed future hotels.
Speaker 4: So as Assistant City Manager mentioned, our goal is by the end of this month, within the next couple of weeks, be a consultant, will be conducting interviews as well as that literature review of other ordinances. And then we'll have a period to review it internally and have something back by mid-October.
Speaker 5: Okay. Thank you for that, John. I do want to note for the council and for those listening that the proposed ordinance that's on the ballot in November is an ordinance that was spent, as mentioned, four or five years in the making with large hotels as part of that conversation.
Speaker 5: One of the first groups that I met with when I got into office was all of the hotels, minus the renaissance of 100 rooms or more in the city, and that we had a real understanding about what their operations is like and the fact that those are not mom and pop hotels and the fact that these hotels
Speaker 5: that are 50 rooms or less are often owned by a family and their operations is completely different from, say, a marriott that has a national standard for how they operate. And so that is one of the reasons not that we wanted to exclude a population I absolutely support.
Speaker 5: Housekeepers are having sexual assault protections in their hotels. I just think that if we're going to include that, that doing it in this short time frame without any engagement with that business community is short sighted. So I, I will start my comments and hear from the maker of the motion on some of the policy questions.
Speaker 0: Kay. I'm going to count somebody. Want me to keep going through that? You want to drive some of these now or.
Speaker 6: I can provide some of the answers. I'm not providing a staff report. This is just an item I'm presenting to my colleagues. So I'll do my best to. I'm sorry. Was there something. Yes, this is a proposed ordinance, but I'm not providing a staff report, so I'll do my best to articulate for my colleagues where I'm coming
Speaker 6: from, and then they'll have to make the determination as to whether it makes sense for them or not. It's not you know, it's not a staff report. So the timing of this well, first of all, this is an item since September of 2017 that I have indicated very clearly and unequivocally that I would support the panic button
Speaker 6: option, because I do believe that that is a public safety concern. However, we did hear this at the Public Safety Committee meeting. We heard this issue and there really was no data to support some of the concerns that we were hearing regarding the need for panic buttons.
Speaker 6: And it wasn't until the most recent discussions that the need and desire or perceived request for panic buttons was highlighted very clearly to the City Council. And I. If that public safety concern is in fact legitimate and honest, which I believe it is, then it makes no sense for us to wait.
Speaker 6: I'm assuming that this ballot initiative is going to pass. Absolutely. But why would we wait to implement a public safety aspect that we have repeatedly meeting after meeting, heard from people that they want and it will make them feel safer.
Speaker 6: The Fiscal Impact Study, as council member Pearce may recall, was about the impact to the city for compliance of the square footage requirement. The panic buttons would not be paid for by the city. They'd be paid for by the entity that would be disseminating them to their employees.
Speaker 6: So there would be no cost to the city. And that's why in September of 2017, I recommended both privately to council members who were supporting the item and publicly during the council meetings that I believed we should move forward on the panic button item, since that appeared to be a very necessary item that had no nexus to
Speaker 6: some of the other provisions that were in the ordinance and something that I believed the Council unanimously agreed was necessary. So. While I understand Councilmember Pierce's concerns and thoughts and I respect them, while I may not disagree with them, I assure you that sitting here on this side of the dais and hearing woman after woman say they're
Speaker 6: not safe because they don't have panic buttons, and that's something that the city council can easily fix and remedy from a public safety standpoint. Why wouldn't we? If something were to happen between now and when this ballot initiative passes, wouldn't we want to say that we did everything we could in our power to protect those women now
Speaker 6: that they have raised that as a public safety issue for the city, not for the hotels, but for the city. So I think, you know, it's it's a prudent thing to do. Frankly, I don't really understand the basis of the opposition.
Speaker 6: Is it that I. So there's a couple of things in regards to subcontracted workers. I, I've no objection to including that. In fact, I'm totally amenable to any recommendations colleagues want to make. So we can include subcontractors. If, if, if that's a friendly, I would absolutely accept it.
Speaker 6: We can also I do believe there was some outreach done with the motels. But remember, this is a proposal for an ordinance that will go through the proceedings, for an ordinance to be adopted. And we can certainly phase in implementation if there's going to be a financial burden for hotels similar to what we've done with other policies
Speaker 6: that we've set where we've been concerned about the impact on small business owners. We can certainly phase an implementation to address that. But I do believe that if hotel workers are concerned about not having public I'm sorry, panic buttons when they're accessing public and the private rooms, then motel workers would have the same concerns.
Speaker 6: And so I do believe and again, I remember having this conversation, Councilmember Pearce, with you in a public setting and September of 2017, where I said I believed that any provision should apply to both hotels and motels. So, you know, while I understand the concerns, it it's a very simple item that places at the disposal of every
Speaker 6: hotel worker and every motel worker access to an alarm system so that they feel safer. And that is really a public safety concern. And it separates it out from other issues that really don't have a nexus to public safety.
Speaker 6: So this is purely a public safety item with no other factors attached to it. Those factors will be addressed by the voters at the ballot. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman Councilwoman Gonzalez.
Speaker 6: Thank you. So I have some.
Speaker 5: A few.
Speaker 6: Questions. I am also struggling with this due to a few things. So the first and foremost is the process. I agree with Councilmember Pearce that this was submitted very late on a Friday over a holiday weekend on the supplemental agenda when we've been oftentimes chastised for doing that, if for any reason.
Speaker 6: But this is a very heavy item. I understand that it's looked at as maybe just a public safety item.
Speaker 1: But it's a pretty heavy item submitted very late.
Speaker 6: Not even including any of the Claudia Law stakeholders or any of the council colleagues that have pushed this through. So I feel that that could have been, you know, one way to to just have us weigh in on on this work because it's been done for so long.
Speaker 6: So the process for me is a little bit shaky in that sense. Secondly, I would have to disagree on the fiscal impact. When we say fiscal impact, we talk about city resources. Well, when the bulk of the item includes PD resources, we should actually ask for a fiscal impact.
Speaker 6: A female officer website information on a website, outreach to hotels and motels, which is fine, and I know our PD may be doing that already, but we haven't had a report, a full report back at the city council level to understand what they're currently doing and what we need to do.
Speaker 6: We absolutely I think many of us agree that we want panic buttons. We want extra security measures at motels or hotels, less than 50. But there's a lot in here that we're not talking about.
Speaker 1: And there's no fiscal impact, especially after we.
Speaker 6: Talked about the financial policies of our Bossi.
Speaker 1: Including fiscal impact not included.
Speaker 6: So again, like I said, public safety resources that are being expended. I understand we're taking out the female officer component. But I think we need additional information and it would be great to have additional information on how these how we were how we derived these resources and.
Speaker 1: How much they'll cost.
Speaker 7: Lastly, I.
Speaker 6: Agree the timing seems very bad. It just seems very negative. It may look like it's confusing voters, which we don't ever want to do. And it makes it unclear as as to whether as to what the city council is currently doing versus.
Speaker 5: What WW would do.
Speaker 6: And I think that that to me seems a bit I don't know, it seems a bit unethical in my sense that we have this coming down the pipeline. People don't really understand or may be able to differentiate what.
Speaker 5: WW and what.
Speaker 6: The what this item may or may not do. So I would actually like to see additional information and I'll let I'll let my council colleagues speak as well. But I'd like to hear additional information on fiscal impacts. I'd like to hear additional information on timeline and additional information to any legal implications.
Speaker 6: We have the Political Reform Act, and I don't know if that will have any repercussions with this. I mean, city attorney parking, do you find that we're going to be having any issues with this, at least with perception?
Speaker 2: We we again, we got this on Friday. Also, we have not done any legal research on any of those issues at this time.
Speaker 6: Thank you. So I would just ask us to review that because I think that those are very key, important issues. And in fact, you know, when we put this item together a year ago, I spoke with every hotel.
Speaker 5: Whether they liked what.
Speaker 6: I was saying or not. I spoke with every hotel and made sure that they were engaged. And so I don't think that our motel owners are engaged. I would also say on top of the motel thing, we have a nuisance abatement policy that Councilmember Richardson has brought forward.
Speaker 6: Do we even think people that are not even keeping up with the quality of life in their motels, do we honestly think that they're going to add a panic button for women and men that have been potentially could be sexually assaulted?
Speaker 6: I don't know. I think we need more information on that as well.
Speaker 5: So I'll just put it out there. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Councilmember Orinda.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mayor.
Speaker 0: Let me ask a question, and I know that this is a we've got a long speakers list. Do we want to take a last vote briefly for our budget? Folks can head home and then we'll continue this conversation if they know that they're ready for us.
Speaker 0: It's just a quick vote if there's no objection with the council we have. Can you please read the item?

Speaker 1: Motion carries unanimously.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next item is one. I believe we're up at 1.5.
Speaker 1: Report from Financial Management Recommendation to adopt a resolution amending the master fees and charges schedule.
Speaker 3: I have to speak on this.
Speaker 0: There's a motion and a second. Councilman, I wanted to make a few comments on this on this item.
Speaker 5: I'd like to make a motion to correct a clerical error to the master fees and charges schedule, to a friendly amendment to make a motion and correct a clerical error made to the master fee in charge of schedule to maintain the toin 15 day line fee at the current rate of $70, not raising it to the typo
Speaker 5: 78.
Speaker 2: Mayor, if I may. Also, there was one other two other corrections there on Exhibit A, there was missing fees regarding illegal cultivation and an incomplete application fee. Those were described in contained in Exhibit B, and those have been reposted and noticed.
Speaker 2: So it has been updated. And there was also an additional fee for the over parking vehicle, oversize vehicle. And again, that has been corrected and updated.
Speaker 0: Thank you. I think there was another question from Councilman Pierce on this item. Is that right?
Speaker 5: Yes. Thank you. I wanted to ask a question. I know that later on in the budget we're looking at code inspection and knowing that that's a discussion that would need to come back with the master fee schedule. Could you remind us of the how that might come back so that we don't have to vote on that today
Speaker 5: , but that we can revisit that at a later time.
Speaker 0: With Mr. Motocross either. I know he's been working on this.
Speaker 5: No, I have my motion from earlier tonight. If that helps, I can read it.
Speaker 4: Sure.
Speaker 0: But it was released to enforce it.
Speaker 5: It has prepared it. Yep, yep, yep. I'm looking for what letter it was. Give me 1/2.
Speaker 0: Although I think these are also there are two separate things, and I think we're going to talk about the budget appropriation. I think what Councilman Parrish is talking about is as it relates to the conversation about staff beginning to work on.
Speaker 0: Right. Just that are our kind of the way we do.
Speaker 3: Looking at the.
Speaker 0: So Tom, do you want to speak, Mr. Modica, on what the process is and how we're going to address that? The requests in the budget.
Speaker 5: How we make changes to the schedule moving forward outside of the budget cycle as it relates to PRM.
Speaker 2: So as we understand the motion in related to period, it's one of the Mayor's recommendations to take a look at the power of fee structure. So if you approve the mayor's recommendations tonight, we will be also taking any input from tonight, but looking at a different way to assess those fees.
Speaker 2: We have a number of different ways that we can do a sliding scale. We're understand the idea is to increase the time that we are able to inspect buildings. We're currently on a 5 to 6 year cycle depending and that could be lowered to a four year cycle or something else.
Speaker 2: So we would bring back, do some outreach and come back with a recommendation and do that midyear with a fee increase and then adding positions.
Speaker 5: So right now, as it stands, if we pass the budget, we don't need to do anything additional. We'll wait for staff to bring something back.
Speaker 2: Correct. And then we would have to go through the normal process to advertise the fee and put that in the general circulation newspaper.
Speaker 5: Great. Thank you.
Speaker 0: I'm sorry. It also be my understanding that all of that is going to come back to the Council for a full discussion.
Speaker 2: Of course you would. Before we could hire anybody, you would have to approve that on the fees. So we would do a report and then there would be an official action in front of you before we move forward.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much.
Speaker 5: Katherine Mongeau is a part of our. Fiscal policies, though it would go to the DRC before coming to the council.
Speaker 0: Question I think.
Speaker 2: I don't recall that specific policy, but that's certainly something you could ask us to do. Yes.
Speaker 5: Then I'd ask that it come to B or C for review and a full discussion. I feel very strongly in the committee process.
Speaker 2: We would need to make that. You can make that part of the motion. When you get to the mayor's recommendations, you could send it there.
Speaker 3: Understood.
Speaker 0: Thank you. There's a motion and a second. Please cast your vote.
Speaker 5: I had a question that.
Speaker 0: Councilman Gonzalez. Yes, I'm sorry, because I don't know if people are lined up for the what are we not doing request to speak unless it's on the item in front of us and then we'll call when we get to the budget.
Speaker 0: So, Councilman Gonzales, on this item.
Speaker 6: Yes, thank you. Just really quick question for the street repaired vehicles. I noticed the change from 45 to $55. Is that because we have a lot of issues in certain areas? And I'm wondering is and I've seen other cities that have a much higher rate and I don't know that that's the only answer.
Speaker 6: But is this. I don't know if there's any other opportunity to increase that rate because it's just it seems like it's a major issue and in many areas.
Speaker 2: Gets more where can you clarify which rate? We're we're talking about these.
Speaker 6: Street repair of vehicle. That street repairs on vehicles in neighborhoods. It's a page three of 11 Exhibit C. Multiple department charges, parking citations.
Speaker 5: It's about halfway down.
Speaker 1: Street repair.
Speaker 6: Vehicle that says $45.
Speaker 5: Current fee requested fee, $55.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 2: So we can certainly look at that. I don't know at the top of my head if that's cost recovery or if that's a fine that we can levy and go higher, we certainly could look at that and.
Speaker 7: Bring that one.
Speaker 6: Let me get some more information back on that in a different form. That would be wonderful.
Speaker 2: We would do that. Great.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman Gonzalez was added on that basis for Andrew.
Speaker 4: Yes, thank you. I want to go on record, as you know. And with respect to the Parks and Recreation Committee has taken a second look at the fee for community centers. You know, it has come to my attention that the security fees is being, you know, assessed for all facilities which have reservations, even if they are not
Speaker 4: gang events. A policy change never came to the council. And Pakistan has not been able to, you know, produce a documentation as to when the policy becomes the norm. I do not believe that the security is needed for a booking, for a repairs at my community centers.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. There's a motion and a second on this, I think no additional comment. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 1: Motion carries unanimously.
Speaker 0: Thank you.
Speaker 1: 1.6 Report from Financial Management Recommendation to approve the NY 19 one year Capital Improvement Program.
Speaker 0: Motion and a second for the best capital improvement program we've had. Councilman Mongo.
Speaker 5: So I think at this point it would make sense to take a break in the in the presentation for the Bossi modification, because within the Bossi recommendation, there are some minor cap changes within the Tidelands funds. So if it so pleases the chair, I'd like to request that we now move on to the 1.12 and then return
Speaker 5: to 1.6 after.
Speaker 0: Okay. So you mean we're going to move on to. You want to go through all the B.S. recommendations right now? Absolutely. Before we continue the.
Speaker 5: Next three, have some modifications. And so those will be read as amended.
Speaker 0: I think that's fine. Sure. Why don't we go and do this, actually? So we've gone through we've got 1.1 to 1.5. Correct. So let's put those aside. Those are done. So we're now as a part of the budget hearing, not necessarily the next item, but comes from mango.
Speaker 0: Shares of BSE will go through the BSE, her, her, her language that she's kind of going to be entering to the record as far as the changes to the recommendations of the B or C as well as, I think some additional changes.
Speaker 0: Is that right?
Speaker 5: Yes.
Speaker 4: Okay.
Speaker 5: Could I get the motion on the vote cast to be. Thank you. And then and so that would be a a second by a committee member. Okay, great. Okay. Slightly modified Budget Oversight Committee recommendations as follows. A motion to provide following direction to city staff that do not have fiscal impact.
Speaker 5: Explorer pilot at McBride Teen Center for Workforce Programing that prepares our youth for the workforce and explores the possibility of transferring teen centers from PRM to workforce in fiscal year 20. Instruct Parks and Rec to implement posting park reservations from active net or other systems, starting with field reservations then community rental space by January one with other
Speaker 5: reservations to be scheduled in a roll out. Move on media and responsibilities from Parks and Recreation and Marine to the Public Works Department, including in preparation of structural transfer of budget and positions effective on or before January 2019.
Speaker 5: Instruct the City Manager to work with development services to implement a comprehensive tracking system for code enforcement violators and violations with special attention to proactive rental housing inspections to better understand the effectiveness of the program. Motion to Expand the purpose of the 200,001 time funds for Youth.
Speaker 5: And at this time, I'd like to request a friendly amendment to supplement it with 100,000 contingent appropriation for senior programing so moved by our Austin are so friendly by Councilmember Austin in the city manager's proposed budget for youth and children support to include senior programs.
Speaker 5: The use of these funds to be proposed and managed by parks, to be proposed by Parks and Recreation and Marine and managed accordingly with their recommendation. Receiving input on selection of the citywide programing by the Commission on Youth and Families and the Senior Citizen Advisory Commission.
Speaker 5: For each respective fund to be forwarded for approval by the PSC by January 2019, recommend the Water Commission to work with the Public Works Department on finding creative solutions to reduce water usage in the city medians and explore collaborations with the Metropolitan Water District mission for the Airport Department to continue to work towards establishing a plane landing
Speaker 5: viewing area for fiscal year 19. Direct the Chief of Police to find resources to grow the Reserve Police Officer program with special attention on the recruitment of retirees. Motion to redistribute the to an excuse me.
Speaker 2: I'm sorry that wasn't in your original motion from the EEOC. So is that an amendment to your original to the motion as it was.
Speaker 5: Originally in section H of subsection F, but since it had no fiscal impact and section F now has a fiscal impact, I moved it up, if that's okay.
Speaker 2: I'm not seen where you. Where you have that. Sorry.
Speaker 5: It was the second to the last motion capital letter F with sub letter D.
Speaker 2: F.D. says resources to Grow Reserve Officer Program.
Speaker 5: Correct.
Speaker 3: Copies of these? No.
Speaker 5: Yes. The modified version from B or C, the first version before the amendments. Motion to redistribute the 215 special advertising and promotion fund. One time funding currently budgeted for one Beat Street's event two fund to smaller quarter activations that consider prior activations and successes opportunities for collaboration of multiple districts and interests from the businesses in those areas
Speaker 5: to be supplemented with Metro Grant funding if available. Motion four Library to find one time savings and Fiscal Year 19 to continue current Sunday library hours of operation through the end of calendar year 18 with and recommend that staff review the potential seven day library model with stakeholders and present options and alternatives to the City Council during
Speaker 5: this time period and report back to the Council on both branch and main library options. Now we're going on to the second set of motions. And later, the projected fiscal year shortfall and the fiscal policies proposed by the BRC.
Speaker 5: Have staff bring back a list of positions that were general fund enhancements recommended for structural funding within the last five years that staff structurally funded them with the General Fund for Review by the Bossie Motion to expand the use of Tidelands budgeted overtime currently allocated to Tidelands South Division Patrol overtime to include all Tidelands areas at the
Speaker 5: discretion of the Chief of Police and increase the appropriation by 25,000 in the title and Operating Fund for Police Overtime. Motion to Reverse and restore the police department's downgrade of the sergeant to police officer and fund this restoration by reallocating the 25 of general fund budgeted.
Speaker 5: Budgeted savings from the overtime motion. See motion to support Mayor Garcia's proposed budget recommendations with the following adjustments. First of all, add in what we just said, including bring back any staff recommendations for fee schedule changes to the body, including the results of the Parks and Rec and the development services changes as requested by Vice Mayor Andrews
Speaker 5: and Councilmember Pearce a moment ago. Use of the 315 of the general fund one time savings from health care cost savings and supplement with 315 of the projected fiscal year 18 year end close to fund the mayor's general fund recommendations proportionately, which means fully because it now is restored to the 630 of the total fy19 p one
Speaker 5: times carve out at least 10,000 for native language signage in communities with the greatest number of non-English-speaking residents with the highest priority given to Spanish and Cambodian dialects within the FBI, 19 LRP one time funds a comprehensive study and evaluation of the LAPD program shall be conducted with results reported back to the City Council before determining FY
Speaker 5: 20 priorities. Use the remaining health care cost savings of 315 for capital infrastructure or existing city programing with the programmatic portion not to exceed 20% per district to be divided equally between the council districts for district priorities. Any exception to the policy must go to the City Council for Approval Program 185,000 of year end and create a
Speaker 5: fiscal year 19 contingent appropriation in the following order. 215 to eliminate the tree stump removal backlog citywide 70,000 for Parks and Recreation Strategic Plan 50,000 of one time funding to be used to support efforts around affordable housing and homelessness.
Speaker 2: Excuse me again, that wasn't in your original recommendation. It was voted on at the B or C, correct?
Speaker 5: I said modified.
Speaker 2: I'm sorry, but I think what you were going to read was the motion as recommended out of the block to the council. And then if you want to change it or modify it, I can do.
Speaker 5: You can.
Speaker 2: Do. So I have I can follow you to see that this is what was discussed, debated and voted on at the B or C, and.
Speaker 0: I think I was.
Speaker 2: So I originally cited any of these changes, and I think we need to follow the process.
Speaker 5: No problem. I asked if I had to read it and I thought I did not.
Speaker 2: And I thought we were reading what was voted on at the B or C.
Speaker 0: And let me make clarifications to that. Make sure everyone that has the information in front of them. I believe that everyone should have the original B or C recommendations that were passed by the committee in front of them.
Speaker 0: So I think that I think I think I think the the idea was, is that everyone has those in front of them. And Councilman Mongo was reading the changes as she went through this.
Speaker 5: And so I was going to originally comment on each change, but I thought that you asked me not to. I apologize for misunderstood.
Speaker 2: That I had asked. In order for the Council to fully understand and debate the proposed changes for the B or C, they need to know what was discussed and voted on and what was approved by the B or C, and then it's up to the body to make any changes, and you can certainly make recommendations.
Speaker 2: But at this time, what came out of the vote is what is before the council. And then, as you did, I think on the first one that was seconded by Councilmember Austin, you could add delete change. But this is very confusing.
Speaker 5: Well, I misunderstood the comment that I should save my comments till the end. So they highlighted them in pink to again annotate those at the end. But I am completely happy starting over. Whatever you recommend, sir.
Speaker 0: So let's let me. Mr. City Attorney. Let me do it. Let me let me let me do this. So I think, first of all, everyone on the body has the original recommendations presented by the council, and I'm going to be in front of them.
Speaker 0: So I think that those have been passed out and the body does have does have those. And so.
Speaker 2: That's correct. But the public.
Speaker 0: Doesn't get that. So I get that. And so so everybody has those. And so we're going to go ahead and do is we'll go back and do read the original B or C recommendations just as the council has in front of them, will read those into the record.
Speaker 0: And then after that we'll go back and make the change. But I think there's just a misunderstanding. So I think we're all trying to do the same thing. So that's fine. That makes sense. And let me also see.
Speaker 0: Okay, that's good. Let's go back. Let's going to we're going to read the original B or C recommendations into the record.
Speaker 5: Would you like me to read them in their entirety, or would you like me to pause where I think in the future we might add?
Speaker 3: Okay. Okay.
Speaker 5: I revise to the following motion to provide the following direction to city staff that do not have fiscal impact. Explore a pilot program at McBride Teen Center for Workforce Programing that prepares our youth for the workforce and explores the possibilities of transferring teen centers from Parks and Rec to workforce leadership in 2019.
Speaker 5: Instruct Parks and Recreation to implement posting park reservations, starting with field reservations, then community rental space by January one with all reservations to follow. Move all media and responsibilities from Parks and Rec and Marine to the Public Works Department, including an appropriate, appropriate structural transfer of budget and positions effective on or before January 2019.
Speaker 5: Instruct the City Manager to work with development services to implement a comprehensive tracking system for code enforcement violations with special attention to proactive rental housing inspection to better understand the effectiveness of the program. Motion to Expand the purpose of the 200,001 time funds in the city manager's proposed budget for youth and children support to include senior programs
Speaker 5: . The use of this fund is to be proposed and managed by Parks, Recreation and Marine and Workforce, receiving input on selected selection of the citywide programing by the Commission on Youth and Families and the Senior Citizen Advisory Commission to be forwarded for approval by the Boise Budget by January 2019.
Speaker 5: Recommend the Water Commission to work with Public Works Department on finding creative solutions to reduce water usage in the city medians and explore collaborations with the MWD motion for the Airport Department to continue to work towards establishing a plane viewing landing of plane landing viewing area in fiscal 19 Motion to redistribute the 2/15 as AP funds currently
Speaker 5: budgeted for one beach streets event to fund two smaller quarter activations that consider prior activation successes, opportunities for collaboration of multiple districts and interest from the businesses in those areas to be supplemented with Metro grant funding as available motioned for the library to find one time savings in fiscal year 19 to continue current Sunday library hours of
Speaker 5: operation through the end of the 2018 calendar year and recommend that staff review the potential seven day library model with stakeholders and present options and alternatives to City Council during this time period and report back to council on both branch and main library options.
Speaker 5: Any questions before I go to the next main motion?
Speaker 2: Councilmember we have a quick question on item A in the in the one about workforce says at 20, I believe it was read into the record 19. Can you clarify is that 19 or 20?
Speaker 5: It was intended to explore a pilot program in 19 for consideration of potential transfers in 20.
Speaker 2: Understood. Thank you.
Speaker 5: Thank you. See. No further questions. I'll move on. Motion to expand the use of title and budgeted overtime currently allocated to Title and South Division Patrol overtime to include all tidelands areas at the discretion of the police chief and increase appropriation by 25,000 in the Tidelands Operating Fund for police overtime.
Speaker 2: She's.
Speaker 5: Motion to reverse and restore the police department. The city manager's recommendation for a police department downgrade of a sergeant to a police officer, and from this restoration by reallocating the 25 of general fund budgeted overtime to the sergeant.
Speaker 5: This is slightly out of order. But sticking with Tidelands because we were out of order at the prior council meeting. Motion to Modify City Manager's Proposed Fiscal Year 19 Tidelands Capital Projects to prioritize community serving projects for this round of Tidelands funding decreased the Alamitos Bay parking improvements by 250,000 and defer a million in the Convention Center
Speaker 5: arena and critical improvements to a later funding cycle. Reallocate these funds to the following projects. 850,000 for the Alamitos Beach concession stand, bringing the total for 19 projected allocation to 1.3 million. 1.35 million, I'm sorry, another 50,000 to begin the PD six waterfront visioning process, 250,000 for the Granada Beach Concession Stand and playground project.
Speaker 5: That's the end of Thailand's. Motion to support the Mayor's proposed budget recommendations with the following adjustments use of 350,000 and General Fund one time savings from health care. Cost savings to fund the Mayor's General Fund recommendations proportionately of the total fy19 LPI one time funds carve out at least 10,000 for native language signage in communities with the
Speaker 5: greatest number of non-English speaking residents with the highest priority given to Spanish and Cambodian dialects within the Fy19 LPI one time funds. A comprehensive study and evaluation of the LA program shall be conducted with results reported back to the City Council before determining the LEP 2520 priorities.
Speaker 5: These remaining health care savings cost of 315 for capital infrastructure or existing city programing with the programmatic portion not to exceed 20% per district to be divided equally by the City Council districts for district priorities. An exception to the policy must go to the City Council for approval.
Speaker 5: Motion for the staff to report back to the BMC with recommendations on year end priorities when 518 year end savings are determined after Fy18 fiscal year end close, that can include the possible funding of the following items Parks and Rec Strategic Plan seven D Library Model Elimination of Tree Stump Removal Backlog Resources to grow the Reserve Police
Speaker 5: Officer Program 50,000 of one time funding to be used to support efforts around affordable housing and homelessness, remaining the remaining 50% of the mayor's proposals and funding needs for library hours. With a discussion point that we stated that at a prior meeting.
Speaker 5: I would also make the motion to adopt the City Council's financial policies with amendments as recommended by the BOC on August 14th, 2018.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you very much, Councilman Mongo. So let me make a suggestion of how we move forward. So everyone has the BFC recommendations as approved out of the committee. They've been they've been read into the record. What I'd like to do is let's go continue to go through the items and as an item comes up that
Speaker 0: has a that has that there is a recommended change from the BSE chairwoman. Then we will do those as we go. So they're read separately through each individual item, and I think that'll help us stay organized. So let's move on to the next item, which is 1.6.
Speaker 0: Or we can read that Madam Clerk.

Speaker 1: Communication from Mayor Garcia, Councilwoman Mongo, Vice Mayor Andrews and Councilmember Richardson recommendation to approve expenditures of $10,000 as a reward for information to solve the murder of Fred Taft on July 21st, 2018.
Speaker 4: He was going to he was going to say, you just thank you.
Speaker 3: Let me.
Speaker 0: Say sorry. Okay. There we go. Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam Court. And I do want to just begin by making some comments. I had a chance to make these comments earlier to the public and to the family as well, who I know is here.
Speaker 0: I'll repeat some of them because they are they are important. We know that the incredibly tragic murder that happened in our community has been horrible to watch and unfold in our community. We know that the Taft family is here today and they deserve justice and answers for the murder of Fred Taft, someone that was a son and
Speaker 0: a father, a family member, a friend. And from everything that I've heard from family members and the community, someone that was very joyous and loved life, we're we know that the entire community mourns this tragedy. We also know that we're doing everything that we can to bring the perpetrator or perpetrators to justice.
Speaker 0: In this case, we're also and continue to ask the public to please bring any information possible to help bring justice to the Taft family and healing for the community. We have been working with L.A. County, the county of Los Angeles, and Supervisor Janice Hahn to put together a reward for any information that would lead our department to
Speaker 0: the arrest of whoever did this heinous and horrific act of hate. We want to ensure that we get this individual off our streets. And we believe and we know that with these reward, this reward that we're putting forward today, we hope we can make that even a reality sooner.
Speaker 0: The sooner the better. We are matching today the $10,000 that the county is putting forward. We will also put forward $10,000 for a $20,000 reward on information that could be helpful for us to catch the person that killed Mr. Taft.
Speaker 0: I want to of course, I appreciate everyone that was there earlier today at the at the press event, especially the family. And I want to thank County Supervisor Janice Horne for her support. This would not be possible without her and of course, of the department and particularly the detectives who are working on this case.
Speaker 0: I just want to thank them and I hope that this helps bring some additional additional closure and justice to this case. And so the motion there is a motion and a second I want to I know we have some folks that want to make some comments.
Speaker 0: So Councilman Richardson, who's made the motion.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just want to take a moment and express my deep, deep condolences to the family, to the Taft family. This was, you know, across kitchen tables and living rooms all across the city. People were just shocked by this incident.
Speaker 9: And I you know, I have to tell you, you know, this isn't this isn't the Long Beach that we want to represent. We want to make sure everybody knows that our parks are safe for everybody no matter what.
Speaker 9: You know what your ethnic makeup is, no matter what side of town you are in, we have to make sure that we are very clear about that. And so if there was anything more that we could do, I offer my office, my support to you.
Speaker 9: I want to thank Supervisor Hahn for stepping up and offering this this reward. I want to acknowledge to our police officers who've kept the council up to speed on this, and they've been sort of leaning forward and doing everything they can.
Speaker 9: And I want to thank the mayor for stepping forward and suggesting that the city council offer this additional reward. So with that said, I offer my condolences and my support. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilmember Councilman Austin.
Speaker 8: Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. And also, I'd like to express my deepest sympathy to the Taft family. I had an opportunity to speak with you all a little earlier today, and we'll let you know that that this this myself and I think this entire council is with your family.
Speaker 8: We want to make sure that we are doing everything we can do. We give our P.D. all the tools and resources they have. They they need to work to bring this this monster who is currently on our streets to justice.
Speaker 8: These types of acts in public restrooms are violent. Acts are not, will not and cannot be tolerated in our city in any way. And I know there's been some some controversy over, you know, how we classify what happened.
Speaker 8: I can tell you that anybody who can, you know, use a firearm and take an innocent life in a public restroom has nothing but evil and hate in their hearts. And so. This individual has to be brought to justice.
Speaker 8: And so to the public, if anybody has any sort of information whatsoever, hopefully you're listening at home. Your conscience is is pulling on you. Please give our Long Beach PD a call. If you with any information you can to help solve this case.
Speaker 8: I'll be supporting this item enthusiastically. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. Vice Mayor Andrews?
Speaker 4: Yes. Thank you very much, Mayor. First of all, I'd like to thank the Taft family for being here today. This morning, I had an opportunity to speak to these individuals, and I'm hopeful that with the approval of this fund, some will come forward.
Speaker 4: This family needs comfort and closure. And while they may never heal completely, knowing that someone is being held responsible for this senseless killing may help. I will keep this family in my prayers. And if anyone knows someone, something or someone, please come forward.
Speaker 4: Because definitely that may help. And I want to let every one of you know that this is something that we cannot tolerate. And we will do everything we can to bring this individual individuals to justice. Thank you very much.
Speaker 0: VEGA Councilman.
Speaker 5: Councilmember Pearce I just want to echo the same sentiments of my council colleagues and say that my heart is with you and that we are prepared to make sure that our PD has all the tools they need to find who did this and to make sure that you all also know what we're fighting to find this person
Speaker 5: and bring them to justice. The city is here to help support you. We have a great health department with mental health services that really help you whenever you're going through times like this. I know how hard it can be.
Speaker 5: So, yes, I'm extremely happy that we are putting together the resources to be able to track this person down, but know that even after they are found, we are still your family and we are still here to help you through this hard time.
Speaker 5: So thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. Councilwoman, at this time is our public comment on this item, which is the reward. Kate, seeing no seeing no public comment on the. Yes, please come forward.
Speaker 5: Good evening. Thank you. My name's Mary Ann Drummond. I'm in their district. And as a Long Beach citizen. And I'd just like to make a few points. One, of course, I think we can all agree that nobody, no family.
Speaker 3: Should go through.
Speaker 5: Something like this. Right. There's just. There are no words for that. And we need to really be standing up for that. And I really appreciate.
Speaker 3: What folks have said about standing behind.
Speaker 5: The family and doing.
Speaker 3: Whatever can be done.
Speaker 5: And I also want to resist the urge to minimize what happened, the the context.
Speaker 3: Of who and how long and at what time of day and with what nonchalance this all happened, right? I think in today's society.
Speaker 5: It's all with today's noise. It's easy to maybe get exhausted or.
Speaker 3: Want or even want to to look at it in the face and say.
Speaker 5: That's a lot to look at. But I think that in understanding that.
Speaker 3: You know, this is a white man in the middle of the day.
Speaker 5: Within seconds of Frederick Taft walking into that.
Speaker 3: Restroom.
Speaker 5: Is effectively executed.
Speaker 3: And he saunters out. Right.
Speaker 5: So this is I mean, that's if.
Speaker 3: That's just.
Speaker 5: Excruciatingly disturbing. Right. And I don't want that to be lost on folks. I don't want to see that being minimized. I am just really grateful and urging for your support on this, on supporting this to do whatever we can.
Speaker 7: And I also want to mention that.
Speaker 5: You know, like white supremacy activity like that and we tend to look at Charlottesville.
Speaker 3: Charlottesville is not. It's the tip of the iceberg. Things like this, things like that.
Speaker 5: Have happened all over and including in the Southland, so including San Bernardino and Santa monica. And there have been a lot of so the kinds of things that are brewing in general out there. This is a scary thing to have had it happen and.
Speaker 7: And potentially inspiring some of that.
Speaker 3: Sort of. Thinking. So at any rate. Thank you so much.
Speaker 5: And for taking this deeply seriously.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 5: Esteemed Council.
Speaker 7: Members. Mayor Garcia. Hello, I'm Shelley Walther, and I'm a member of the Lakewood Village community in Long Beach. I'm here to ask you to support the $10,000 reward to help find the man who murdered Frederick Taft at Panama American Park on the afternoon of July 21st.
Speaker 7: When I first heard that someone had been murdered.
Speaker 5: In broad daylight.
Speaker 7: In our neighborhood park and the racial circumstances surrounding.
Speaker 5: Surrounding the crime, I didn't want to believe that.
Speaker 7: Such a horrific act had been committed.
Speaker 5: I'm deeply concerned with the Long Beach Police Department's lack of response regarding the murder in our community. It seems like our community is doing.
Speaker 7: Most of the work. My Lakewood Village neighbors are unifying to support the Taft family and to stand against white supremacist hate acts. We're collectively seeing and hearing.
Speaker 5: Comments made by Long Beach residents in response to the murder. Such as. They're keeping out the riff raff. And our city is being taken over more and more. Which tells you the extent of racism that exists in Long Beach.
Speaker 5: I want you to know.
Speaker 7: That the majority of our community is unifying in love.
Speaker 5: And doing what is right by calling out hate and hopefully drawing out information about the killer.
Speaker 7: Many residents have started putting out the sign as a as a as unity to fight.
Speaker 5: Against the hate that we feel is brewing.
Speaker 7: It's painful knowing to.
Speaker 5: Go to Pan-Am Park now, knowing that such a hateful act occurred there and the killer is at large. I feel like I'm going to vomit as I approach that restroom.
Speaker 7: I see children of color playing in the park. Do they know that? What happened there?
Speaker 5: Do they know that they're in danger? It's been over a month since Fred Taft was murdered.
Speaker 7: Why, if a murderer is among us.
Speaker 5: Are my white neighbors and I not more afraid? Could it possibly be because my skin is the right color? Resources need to be considered, including asking the.
Speaker 7: FBI to.
Speaker 5: Investigate this as a hate crime.
Speaker 7: And to bring forward information about the killer.
Speaker 5: Himself. I hope the.
Speaker 7: City and the Long Beach Police Department will step up and take action against hate in our community. We have to be honest about the judgments that surround this case and not allow them to continue or to proliferate. Thank you for your time.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Hello. My name is Vicky Yamashita. I am a 25 year resident of Lakewood Village and I live in the fifth District. I my home is about 100 yards away from Pan American Park. And from my driveway, I can actually see the restroom where Fred spent the last moments of his life.
Speaker 1: And like many Lakewood resident Lakewood Village residents, this is the place where.
Speaker 5: We.
Speaker 1: Very comfortably and without giving a second thought, took our kids to play, walked our dogs and taken even a late night stroll, feeling quite safe until very recently. And unfortunately, this park is never going to feel the same for those of us who have this relationship with them.
Speaker 1: But I don't want this to sound like it's about me, because this is not at all about my loss. This is about the loss of a family that is grieving and trying to grapple with what in the hell happened that day?
Speaker 1: On that day that was supposed to be a day of family celebration. I'm here tonight to ask the council to support the $1,000 reward. It sounds like I will be thanking you. It sounds like everyone is in support of this, but in hopes that this aids in the apprehension of this of this killer.
Speaker 1: I'm also here to.
Speaker 7: Ask people to.
Speaker 3: Go into.
Speaker 5: A place that's.
Speaker 1: Kind of uncomfortable, and that is to talk and think about race and how that affects all of us in our day to day lives. I'm asking for the Long Beach Police Department to provide as much transparency and information that they can without jeopardizing the case, of course, to support the Taaffe family and the residents of Lakewood Village
Speaker 1: and to assure us that all of the reported racist incidents that were surrounding this crime and the dates of the crime are taken into proper account. We're talking about some of the racist taunts that have been reported and some of the racist graffiti that has been documented there.
Speaker 1: Hate has no place in in Lakewood Village unless we let it. But what we need to do and be willing to do is to look at it really openly and transparently. And so to that end, I, too, have one of the signs that we have a smaller version and a lawn version sign.
Speaker 1: And this is a show of solidarity to the family and to the fellow residents to say that hate has no, no place here and that we want to look at this crime kind of with eyes wide open. In my closing statements, I'd like to say that if we're going to continue to grow as a community, everyone, the
Speaker 1: residents, the city officials and law enforcement must all be willing to lean in. Someone said that that phrase a few minutes earlier to talk to each other honestly and most of all to really listen to each other and even and especially when these conversations can make us uncomfortable, when we are talking around about topics such as race
Speaker 1: and white supremacy, I feel that this is the only way that a city like ours can have the full bragging rights for the diversity that so many of us cherish in the city of Long Beach. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Good evening. Mayor and city council members. My name is Michael Swalwell, sir. I am the president of the Unitarian Universalist Church of Long Beach. I am a 30 year resident of Lakewood Village. I've passed through Pan American Park almost every day for the last eight years when I added a morning walk as part of my daily exercise
Speaker 4: . I walked before the sun came up, and every so often, late at night, I rarely worried about my safety. Then Fred tapped was murdered. Fred was a man. As am I. Fred was middle age. I am too. Fred was a grandfather.
Speaker 4: So am I. And I visit the park with my granddaughter. Fred was a responsible member of the community. I think the same of myself. But I feel no more afraid today than I did before Fred was murdered because that we have much in common.
Speaker 4: There is a crucial difference between Fred Taft and myself. Fred Taft was black and I'm white. If the reward being proposed is approved and it leads to the conviction of the white man seen leaving the murder scene, justice will not be fully served.
Speaker 4: That will only happen if the city takes meaningful actions to address the climate that encourages a hate crime such as this to occur. I'm not saying it's among everyone, but it is pervasive and it is present. And unless we think there isn't such a climate, I went to read a comment posted on the social media app Nextdoor
Speaker 4: in which people identify themselves. So this is not anonymous. It's a post that I find filled with misinformation and irrelevancy. I am all for fighting the killer. But putting up a tree or a plaque to commemorate the life of Fred Taft might be going a little too far.
Speaker 4: The year was that the family reunion was a blood family reunion. Did you see in the TV interview how the whole family was wearing red if he was an old gangbanger from years ago? I don't want to celebrate his life.
Speaker 4: I'm not trying to be mean.
Speaker 3: But I know he.
Speaker 4: Was because I know he was an innocent victim in this case. But how the gangs have destroyed every neighborhood they have been involved in, with all the drugs and the murders and the extortion and everything else they do.
Speaker 4: I'm just saying, before you put up a plaque, make sure the man was never part of all that. All right.
Speaker 0: A concert. Just what I want you to make sure. Mr. Good. Here's our last public speaker. I'm going to close the speakers list on this item. Okay. So, Mr. Jeans and then and then that's the final public speaker.
Speaker 0: I'm going to close the speakers list. I just want to be for Mr. Spencer. It's just to the just to the three folks that just spoke. I just want to thank you for coming forward and saying what you said, but most importantly, for standing up within your own community and saying what you said and being vocal about
Speaker 0: it within your neighborhood. That is not something that a lot of people choose to do. And I'm aware of the types of comments that are put on on that site and have read things equal to or worse. In some ways, that disgusts me, and I'm sure a lot of people should feel the same way.
Speaker 0: But but to the three folks that just spoke. You know, allies and people that support these types of conversations are so important and the work can't always be left to a community. And I think that that allyship is really, really important.
Speaker 0: And so I just wanted to thank those folks for come. And that was, I can tell, your passion there. So thank you. Mr.. Good to you.
Speaker 4: Larry Good. You. I've lived in Long Beach since 1977. And in all candor, I don't think I don't think I've ever set foot in that park or much of the northern parts of Council District eight or nine. But a few months ago and I forget what the crime was.
Speaker 4: It triggered by thinking on this. There was another crime. It was either in the eighth or ninth District and. The only time I would traverse through those areas would be on the blue line. And when you go up on the blue line, you're generally looking at your newspaper or reading and don't pay that much attention to what
Speaker 4: what's on either side of you. About it was about 18 maybe excuse me, about two and a half months ago when they had that MTA bus debacle from Artesia up to Rosa Parks, which stopped at every single corner, every red light, every intersection there was for three to 5 to 8 minutes and so forth in some cases
Speaker 4: . And as it is looking out there, I think it's the Mingus Hills area and so forth. And I had been reading about some crimes, and it occurred to me that the thought process is what would those people live up there?
Speaker 4: Be safer and be better off if they fell under the EGIS and protection. Of the county or whoever it is that is taking care of Dillinger's hills and those surrounding the surrounding areas. I don't know the extent of all the crimes up there, but I do know our police department is stretched thin, notwithstanding some very good management
Speaker 4: now. And so I think it's worthwhile taking a look. To see what how the best interests of the public that live there and have to deal with what's going on can be best served. And I think we should ask the city needs to ask itself some hard questions and would they be better with the better served?
Speaker 4: By. Having the Long Beach, the the county patrol, that area or some other paradigm. Other than Long Beach. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Good evening, Diane. The jeans.
Speaker 5: I fully support this effort to.
Speaker 3: Put forward a word.
Speaker 5: It's about time.
Speaker 3: I absolutely support it.
Speaker 5: And I.
Speaker 1: Would invite you.
Speaker 3: The.
Speaker 5: Next time. If anyone has a criticism.
Speaker 3: Of the football.
Speaker 5: Players or whoever decides to sit or kneel during the National Anthem or the Pledge of Allegiance to Remember.
Speaker 7: This type of.
Speaker 5: Incident they're bringing. They're not being disrespectful.
Speaker 7: They're trying to bring attention to.
Speaker 5: This type of situation. It's horrendous. I can't even imagine how the family must feel. Not just.
Speaker 7: That he was murdered, but he was he was murdered.
Speaker 5: Because of his the color of his skin. And so when.
Speaker 7: I see these people.
Speaker 5: In fact, I.
Speaker 7: Personally.
Speaker 5: Normally do not stand. I continue my work and I sit because when the Pledge of Allegiance says, end justice, liberty and justice for all.
Speaker 3: And that was stolen from this gentleman.
Speaker 5: So every time any time you ever anyone that's watching this.
Speaker 3: Before you.
Speaker 5: Criticize someone sitting or kneeling. Remember, this is the type of incident that is the surrenders type of incident.
Speaker 3: That they are protesting.
Speaker 5: So please think think about it. And I absolutely support what you're doing. Thank you very much.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Miss Logins. There's there's a there's a motion and a second. I have some some councilmembers here. So, Councilmember Pierce.
Speaker 5: Thank you. And we want to thank everybody for showing up. And thank you for those that spoke today. And also want to apologize for, you know, the agenda item today was around the $10,000. And we have a long agenda will likely be here.
Speaker 5: So who knows when one or two. And so we just kind of plow through and say, okay, this is what we want to do. But part of the work that I care deeply about on this council, I know my council colleagues care deeply about is around governing, not just for equity, but for racial equity.
Speaker 5: And that we as a council have struggled with how do we talk about these conversations? How do we make sure that it's not just us up here, but that we are implementing a culture and a process that allows us to pause and talk about the one thing that I firmly believe if we govern for racial equity, everything
Speaker 5: else thrives, that if we govern for those that have been impacted by the police system, by hate crimes, by violence, by drugs, by all of that, that our entire city is going to be better for it. So I really want to thank you for having us pause.
Speaker 5: And I want to ask staff, I know that, you know, Councilmember Rex Richardson helped lead the Office of equity and I wanted to ask staff have just some follow up can be done in the community around facilitating some meetings around some of the hate crimes.
Speaker 5: I know that I've had hate crimes in my district in the past, but some process with the Office of Equity and maybe our Human Relations Commission where we can talk about a space for both of the communities to come together and identify, maybe there's just a little bit of a process that we could put in place there
Speaker 5: so that we can we can figure out outside of tracking down this person, are there some community events, some? I like your signs. I like the idea of signs that say Long Beach isn't a place for hate. You know, like just have us have that conversation so we don't let this moment pass us by without us taking
Speaker 5: the opportunity to talk about race a little bit more. My question.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you. Councilmember a Councilmember Richardson.
Speaker 9: Thanks, Mr. Mayor. Just the just the question. Mr. WEST. So we've done rewards in the past. What were the levels on the rewards? The you know, in the in recent history.
Speaker 4: I believe we've matched what the county has done.
Speaker 2: The county's done. I believe that one reward at 25, one reward at 20. I believe.
Speaker 9: So. And then we match those.
Speaker 4: Yes. We basically took the lead from the county.
Speaker 9: Okay. I would say I remember a number of those and they just seemed higher. And and I do appreciate the county offering $10,000 for not limit it to stop at $10,000. If we wanted to offer a $25,000 reward, something like that.
Speaker 9: We have the ability to do so. Correct. Okay. Well, that said, I think that we should be very clear that we're not you know, it's a tricky assigning a value associated with someone's life is very tricky. So I think we should begin to talk about a standard when we issue a reward or a match for reward, you
Speaker 9: think about a standard. So what was the what was the amount on the last one? I'd like to get to that level. It was 25,000.
Speaker 4: It was 22 individuals.
Speaker 9: Okay. So if the council were like, I'm going to amend my motion to make our match 20,000 instead of ten.
Speaker 0: And we'll we'll go ahead we'll go ahead and accept that. I think what we've and I support that we've done traditionally, of course, is the county will tell us the number and then we'll match the county. But it's absolutely appropriate for the council to decide a number.
Speaker 0: And I think that that's a maybe a practice that we've done in the past. It should be change moving forward as well.
Speaker 4: Absolutely.
Speaker 0: So that so that just we make sure I have the motion on the floor. Councilmember it's. Did you say 20? Is it.
Speaker 9: From 22? From 10.
Speaker 0: To 20. Okay, perfect. Thank you very much. So we have the new motion on the floor, which is 20,000. See no other no other speakers. Councilman Mongo.
Speaker 5: Thank you. I want to appreciate my colleagues, both Mayor Andrews and Councilman Austin and Councilmember Richardson, for supporting this item with me. And I appreciate the idea of bringing the total reward up to 30,000. So 20 plus the ten.
Speaker 5: This has been a very, very trying time for the community. I appreciate those of you who have stayed engaged. I know that it has been a long process, but I want you to know that there is no limit to the amount of police investigative resources that have been put forward.
Speaker 5: At no time has anyone in detectives bureau been told they cannot do overtime if there's any lead that they have. Commander Herzog even updated me on Friday when I was at Memorial. That they were authorizing additional overtime for investigations that were necessary.
Speaker 5: And I know he's even put in some of his time out of another division. So the day we find this person will not come soon enough. Thank you for your continued efforts and keeping this at the forefront.
Speaker 0: Okay. Well, thank you very much. We have a we have a motion in a second for a $20,000 reward that will be match with what the county did earlier today. Please go ahead, members, and cast your vote.
Speaker 1: Motion carries.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And again, I particularly want to thank the Taft family who I know is here, family and friends. So thank you again. I know you were with us earlier and we appreciate you being here again today.
Speaker 0: I know it's very taxing and we appreciate it greatly. So thank you. Let me go ahead and move on with with the regular agenda now. We do have, of course, before we start our hour meeting, we do have a continuation of the budget hearing.
Speaker 0: And so today for the budget hearing, we have harbor department, we have the water department, and then we will have further discussions on the budget. Obviously, the budget can be adopted tonight. It could also be adopted at the deadline, which would be next week.
Speaker 0: And so that would be the the option of the council that they'll be discussing a little bit later today. So we do have some for presentations and I know questions as well. And so we will begin with our harbor department presentation and then we'll go into a wider department presentation and we'll go into questions on on those

Speaker 1: Most motion case unanimously.
Speaker 0: Thank you. 1.11, please.
Speaker 1: Report from Financial Management Recommendation to adopt the Mayor's proposed budget recommendations for the FY19 proposed budget.
Speaker 5: So this one would have been as amended, but I would like to amend the amend amended.
Speaker 0: She's going to change the recommendation.
Speaker 2: For a change in the BRC recommendations on the mayor's proposal.
Speaker 5: But I'd like to finally myself, if possible. Yes. Let me find that motion.
Speaker 0: Just before the presentation.
Speaker 5: Okay. Motion to support Mayor Garcia's proposed recommendation with the following adjustments, including to bring back any staff recommendations for fee schedule changes to the B or C, including the results of the Parks and Rec and Development Services. Fee studies use 315 of General Fund one time savings from health care cost savings and 315 of the projected f
Speaker 5: y 18 fiscal year close to fully fund the Mayor's General Fund recommendations proportionately with the other minor amendments as stated by the PSC.
Speaker 2: And Council Member proportionately. Is that a word that you mean to include in there? That sounds to refer. It seems it.
Speaker 5: Doesn't. It's not necessary any more. Thank you. Thank you.
Speaker 0: And for, you know, for clarification sake as well. So essentially that restores the the budget proposal as is. And it's not I know that there's a minute and everyone may not know what the f 18 you know sort of semantics.
Speaker 0: It's semantics it's it's basically the fully funding it's not split in half or any of that. And so it's it's a recommendation as proposed initially. I do have a couple of speakers. Councilman Pryce, do you want to say anything?
Speaker 6: No, not on this specific one.
Speaker 7: But is this the.
Speaker 6: Okay, so have we did the is it appropriate time to talk about the money for the seniors or. No?
Speaker 0: Not yet.
Speaker 6: Okay. All right.
Speaker 0: Because I'm in Kansas.
Speaker 6: My first one, I think the Budget Oversight Committee. I know this is not very easy to go through this every year. And I want to thank our city departments for proposing many of these for adding these proposals so the mayor can recommend them fully to the city council.
Speaker 6: And so I appreciate all of that work here. I first want to and I also think many of the community members, of course, that have been here for so long, I know some of our youth have stayed since 4 p.m. and all of you have been here for so long.
Speaker 6: So thank you for your patience. In that I will just say I appreciate the justice fund immigrant rights. What I will say about that is, you know, everyone looks at it as a very black and white issue. But I think for many of us in the city who represent these large communities, it's very important.
Speaker 6: And these dollars will not only be a dollars for an issue, they'll be dollars that will actually be supported by the matched by the very institute. But they also have some transparency elements, matching dollars.
Speaker 0: That's when before you keep going, I just want to talk tech folks or something going on with your voice that's so out of our tech folk and just take a look at it. As you can tell.
Speaker 7: You know, hello, hello.
Speaker 6: Provide matching dollars from private philanthropy. Number two, it will provide in-kind support, program management, tech assistance and training. And number three, which I think is very important, it's research for evaluation. So key performance indicators to ensure that we are on track.
Speaker 6: And this this fund is transparent and it's actually going to individuals who actually need it. But it also keeps and holds the city of accountable. There's currently 12 cities, 12 cities in eight states that have this justice fund in place, and they call themselves Safe Cities Network.
Speaker 6: So I just want to make sure that we put that forward. In addition, we know that this will enable people to be more civically engaged, especially as we have this Census 2020 coming up. And we know that many of these populations are afraid to call and ask for city services.
Speaker 6: So we really appreciate this expungement services. We talked about that in detail that primarily people of color, especially men of color, are being targeted or have low level records that deter them from.
Speaker 1: Educational opportunities in obtaining a.
Speaker 6: Job. And the Youth Opportunity Fund, I just want to say this is a great proposal. It's a strategic plan for youth by our youth, especially opportunity youth in all districts. This fund can be leveraged with private dollars as well.
Speaker 6: An additional grant funding. The youth, from my knowledge, are creating a mission statement and a formal framework to create parameters for the strategy. So it's not just dollars that we don't know what to do with, but parameters for the strategy that will touch all parts of our city.
Speaker 6: And it's also inclusive of many generations, from seniors to the youth.
Speaker 0: So we see the.
Speaker 6: Language access plan in the safe housing plan. So the safe housing plan, I will say I have a question on that and I know I already spoke with development services about this. I know that's not specifically proposed in the mayor's budget.
Speaker 6: I think the mayor has proposed the city prosecutor element for about $100,000. But I would like to ask our development services a couple of questions.
Speaker 1: Lynda.
Speaker 3: How does that work? Maybe this is better.
Speaker 6: So ads are coming up. And I know we've talked in length and I know currently few things are happening. So relative to the people's budget, the safe housing plan, our Hanson software system is being updated. And we are working as well with tech and innovation to upgrade that system for better results and make sure we have it
Speaker 6: all set. Do you know at all when we can expect updates to the software, the system? I know it'll probably be a little bit down the road, but do you have any sort of idea on when that?
Speaker 7: Councilmember Gonzales. Thank you for the question. And I would just like to clarify that we have just started the conversations with the TIDE Director regarding taking a comprehensive look at the program and making sure that it has the capability to meet our needs.
Speaker 7: And if it does, we would then need to go through a process of reprograming that system to take the data that is going to be able to help us facilitate the inspections and all of our not only in code enforcement, but in the Planning Bureau as well.
Speaker 7: So if I were to give a rough estimate, I would say between about 3 to 4 months for us to do a full assessment. And after that point, we would start to probably take another 60 days to actually make those changes to the system.
Speaker 6: Okay, great. And I know in conversations.
Speaker 5: We've had with the public.
Speaker 6: There are other systems that may produce additional elements that could maybe be compared to Hanson. So there's SLA. I know that City of L.A. uses SLA and concrete, and those are two that offer additional options for public visibility when it comes to code enforcement cases.
Speaker 6: So those maybe just things to throw out there to leverage or compare with the current system after we update it.
Speaker 7: And that is correct. And staff is also generally familiar with both of those systems and actually there are others as well. However, where we're starting from is to make sure that the system that we currently have, because we are under the understanding at this point that that system does have the capability.
Speaker 7: However, until we can actually do an assessment of that system and the anticipated upgrade of that system, we want to make absolutely sure that before we look at another system, that this system wouldn't be able to handle our needs.
Speaker 7: If it would not, we would then be open to looking at those other alternative systems.
Speaker 6: Okay, great. And I understand that we don't exactly know how many code enforcement officers we may need, depending on what happens here tonight and then down the road and even after the system is updated. So I would like to ask if we can receive a two from four to the city council that talks about the updates, provides
Speaker 6: progress on the updates, and also progress on what we envision the code enforcement additional personnel would look like, whether that's 60 days after, you know, we've had some sort of idea or a down the road, but continual updates in a to form four would be really great as we go through this process certainly.
Speaker 6: And I know. So the mayor's budget specifically calls out the city prosecutor, city prosecutor funds for high level code and nuisance issues. And I love this. I think it's absolutely needed. What we've talked about and I know I've mentioned this to you as well, Linda, is we currently have a link on the Development Services website that tackles
Speaker 6: or basically lists property owners who have violations above 120 days. And those may or may not be in sync with the city prosecutor program, but perhaps we can a make the link a little bit more visible and be add these cases additional cases if they are city prosecutor cases that are have hit their limit.
Speaker 6: And I will say we see that a lot, of course, with people that have major quality of life issues. And then, of course, the historic districts that have had many issues and complaints even over a period of time, they've just never been never been pushed to the city prosecutor's office or right before that.
Speaker 6: So this program will hopefully help those issues. So I just wanted to throw that out there for you. Thank you very much. Thank you. And then lastly, I will say with language access, I know Tommy had mentioned about a structural plan that we would be receiving some information coming back soon.
Speaker 6: Do you know when we can expect that? The awesome timeline question.
Speaker 2: So this is for prep?
Speaker 6: No, I'm sorry. I'm going to language access.
Speaker 3: Structural point.
Speaker 2: And. A structural plan for language access.
Speaker 6: Yes, I believe we asked for that a week or two weeks ago in our last few council meetings, and we had asked to see if we can get some sort of plan back to the city council on how to make this structural.
Speaker 6: Councilwoman Gonzalez. There was a TFF that was issued on Friday, late Friday, that responded to questions from the August 14th and August 21st. BOSSIE And or hearings. And that doctor.
Speaker 3: Had.
Speaker 1: Some questions on the structural funding. And I just look at it for you. If I could find that. Yes. I think the the making the permanent position to full time.
Speaker 6: Right now it is a part.
Speaker 1: Time position, a temporary part time not temporary, but.
Speaker 6: A part time position to make it a full time position. It was around 30,000. Oh, yes, it was around 32,737 would be needed to make the LEAP position full time. Okay, so that's great. All right. I'm done with all my questions.
Speaker 6: Thank you very much, Grace. I appreciate that. And what I will say is that if we can add that in this year's proposed budget to make this full time, I think that would be really great. I know Council member Wodonga has fought for this for some time, so just throwing that out there.
Speaker 6: But thank you very much. I'm glad we're moving forward.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much.
Speaker 5: Customer Pierce is way better, huh? Hello again. Yes, the mayor's budget item. I want to say that I think I said it last time when we sat down to go over this budget. It really did ring true to me that this was a reflection of an attempt to get at the people's budget.
Speaker 5: And so knowing that we've done everything from tapping into language access to youth, I know that all of these deserve to have more money. But working within our means and I want to say how much I appreciate the community organizing the efforts that have gone on.
Speaker 5: I know that while we see you here for a couple of hours, that it's all of your jobs all week long to get this work done, to do the community outreach, to to really invest in that that it's building community and not just coming up here with the piece of paper.
Speaker 5: And I think that as a council, it is our job to I don't want to say reward, but to work with those that have invested the time to make our city better. And it's not making something better for one resident, for one constituent.
Speaker 5: But as you guys do this work, we are getting on the map for other nonprofits, for the Ford Foundation, for organizations like that to send money to Long Beach to invest in Long Beach becoming a more equitable city.
Speaker 5: And so I want to thank you for all those that don't even know that you're doing this work. I know.
Speaker 6: That.
Speaker 5: It's a labor of love for you. And so having a budget that reflects that is something that I'm really proud of. I'm really proud of the mayor's recommendations and the work that this council has done to try to get to the heart of what your recommendations and your work has done.
Speaker 5: So I do I think you guys all know that I fully support the mayor's budget. I want to talk about that. Outside of the people's budget, the slumlords with the prosecutor's office, I think is something that we haven't really talked about before.
Speaker 5: But I'm really happy to see that and I look forward to hearing a report in the next year about how that went and what that process looks like. I'm not asking for anything additional. I also really want to talk about how important the expungement efforts are and the money that we're using to make sure that we address
Speaker 5: some of the changes for the African-American communities, communities that have disproportionately been put away for marijuana use, and that now that we have made that change here in the city, I'm really happy to see that that effort is going forward.
Speaker 5: So with those changes, with the senior changes, adding some dollars that are coming forward, it is a really robust budget and adding more police officers, particularly the officer by the officers that are on bikes in our downtowns and around our beat areas I think is going to be a great change that we should all really talk about
Speaker 5: . I know for the last five, six years in District two, it's been an issue that's come up a lot and we have been told, well, we don't have the resources. So again, looking at a balanced budget where we're both adding PD, but we're also adding a youth budget, I think is something that we should really celebrate after
Speaker 5: today. I want to echo the comments of my colleague, Councilmember Gonzalez, in reference to the software. I know that we've had lots of conversations with development services, just trying to get that turned around quickly. I know that it's been a topic that we've talked about for a few years, and so whatever we can do to try to
Speaker 5: get that to come back to us sooner rather than later. And you had asked for a two from four. What did you ask for? Two from four on on the language access or on the housing? Just the code force.
Speaker 5: I would.
Speaker 3: The code enforcement. Okay.
Speaker 5: I know. I was like I took all my notes. Sorry, guys. We have so many topics we want to talk about. We're so excited. I would ask that it goes beyond a two from four and that we come to council with it.
Speaker 5: I love all the two from fours, but some Fridays we get like 15 of them and it just, it sometimes they sneak through and I know it's because we asked for them. What I would like for this one not to be a two from four.
Speaker 5: I would like to have a discussion council led by development services. That way we don't have to re agenda is it is that a big change that too much so the fiscal policies that we just approved a minute ago actually require that when we ask for a report back that the staff have the opportunity to tell you
Speaker 5: that will take 24 hours of staff work or 13 hours of staff work. And the reason that this policy was also very controversial and took two years to pass is because sometimes, let's say, just in order, Councilmember Gonzalez and I make a proposal about digital inclusion, and we believe it'll take 15 staff hours and we asked for
Speaker 5: it to come back 120 days. But the next week, councilmember supervisor asks for something else from the time manager and wants it back in 60 days or 30 days. What ends up happening is people's items get bumped and the staff resources are being moved around based on timing, not based on priority levels.
Speaker 5: And so I'm not putting a time limit on it, I get that. But to ask for anything to come back to the council, I would just say that in light of the policy, the staff should get the opportunity to tell you that's going to take us 20 hours of staff time or 15 hours of staff time or
Speaker 5: when they can get back to us. And I recognize that there's a lot of two from coming, but my my alternative would be. The community comes to lots of community meetings and ends up waiting till 11:00 to hear the second council item because we're waiting to go through all of our other items.
Speaker 5: And so I'm just hoping and I know that some of us have talked offline about this, but it's never been agenda is that we kind of each keep an eye on all the things that are coming back to council and how long that list is getting and where are our priorities as a council and making sure that
Speaker 5: things that we've set as priorities like tonight we made a motion to review the positions that were grant funded. We made that same motion a year ago and they never came back to council. And why is it that certain things make it back and other things don't?
Speaker 5: It's just if we want to report back, maybe at the end of each council meeting, we take a vote. And if you have five people that want to hear it back or if they want to move it to committee or what you want to do, I would just say that.
Speaker 5: My community of seniors that comes to council don't often get to stay until the end because they drive a very long distance at night. Well, neither did the youth that were here earlier. I agree. And that's unfortunate, especially it's I mean, we had to drive.
Speaker 0: People don't care. Let me just make sure. Let me go back. So let me just go back. Councilman Pearce, you have the floor. I think so. Let me go back to Councilman Pierce. You have the floor, so please continue.
Speaker 5: So my comment my comment is that housing continues to come up. It is a priority for, I believe, this council based on the votes that we have taken in the past. I believe that tonight I could say, hey, I would like to make a budget adjustment and ask for, you know, the 250, $350,000 that the community is
Speaker 5: asking for. But instead of asking for that $350,000, I'm asking for development services to come back not with a two from four, but to come back to council with a report on the fee schedule and the changes to the technology that we need to be able to do code enforcement the way that that I feel is necessary
Speaker 5: . That's what I'm asking for.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Let me just also just just to square Sylvia, we're back to the next item. When we talk broader about the budget and the BFC, I think there's an opportunity to have some more discussions about different parts of the budget.
Speaker 0: I just want to make sure that we're focused just on the recommendations as presented in the mayor's recommendations.
Speaker 5: I guess because there's some crossover housing piece, what I.
Speaker 0: Would have what I would ask is that we pass the mayor's recommendations as is, and we can add in the next item. When we talk broader about the budget, there's going to be some additional changes read into the record by by Councilman Mongo.
Speaker 0: There's an opportunity to have, I think, some of these.
Speaker 5: I think I'm getting nervous that we're doing it one by one. So I just want to make sure that by the end there's an opportunity to make sure we address everything that I don't miss because it wasn't included in one section of the other.
Speaker 0: The the broader budget discussion is the next is the next item.
Speaker 5: Okay. So on the mayor's budget, I support the mayor's budget and I will save the rest of it for the next question. And I hope that we are all understanding that we weren't supposed to pass this budget tonight.
Speaker 5: Right. Our deadline isn't supposed to be till next week. So having a full discussion tonight, I hope that I can feel free to do that without, you know, feeling tension about it.
Speaker 0: So I think absolutely. I mean, every member of this body can say their comments and speak as long as they would like on on each item. And so I want to make sure that everyone feels that way, or maybe not according to some.
Speaker 0: Okay. But let's let's continue. So, again, the ask is just to keep these recommendations, as is began, some broader discussions. Next, there's a variety of additions that Councilman Mongo is still going to be going to be making. So, Councilman Richardson.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Reserve most of my comments for the next item when we jump in. But one of the recommendations in the mayor's budget is the 200 K for the the youth fund. Now, in the mayor's budget, it says you fund through participatory budgeting.
Speaker 9: We heard from the public tonight that what the public wants is that funding to be toward a strategic plan, a youth strategic plan, and secondly, for it to be housed within the Health and Human Services Department. So is that reflected in this budget?
Speaker 9: I mean, is that reflected in this motion that we need to offer friendly.
Speaker 0: So that that's not what I what I would say is is is this is I'm actually in support. I think the idea of doing a strategic plan is actually great. So I absolutely support that. I think it's the right use of money.
Speaker 0: I've also said publicly that I have I'm not married to it. Going to any one department or going to any party supported budgeting process. It was just as a starter fund. My recommendation is going to be that our staff is interested in bringing this issue back to the council after kind of talking to some to the community
Speaker 0: and the council members. So as well as the commissions themselves are interested in giving some suggestions. So what I would say is that we set aside the $200,000. It doesn't have to be just a pre budgeting. It could absolutely be for the strategic plan and have council come back in as when they have the conversations as to
Speaker 0: how that should be spent in words and where it should go. It does not matter to me. But I also want to make sure that the council has a chance to weigh in in that process.
Speaker 9: Mr. Mayor, we went to the public and talked about it and the public has given input. So I think I guess.
Speaker 0: I'm just I what I'm what I'm saying is, is that I'm just I'm just communicating what staff's I interests has been is to do.
Speaker 9: It that I in asking staff they said they want council direction. So is this the time for me to give council direction? Because I'd like to make that.
Speaker 5: So if I might.
Speaker 0: Well, hold on. Actually, Councilman Richardson has a floor, so council has a floor.
Speaker 9: I mean, we had a youth budgeting meeting first. Let me take a step back. So I worked on nine budgets, and this is the most organized youth effort I've ever seen.
Speaker 4: And they've been clear.
Speaker 9: About what they want. And I'm not grandstanding, but I feel like there may be other agendas for this funding that I think we should just be very clear. You know, at the it was actually called out at the the budget reveal that, you know, we want to get input from the groups who proposed this particularly my girls
Speaker 9: in action was called out. I've gotten emails. I've heard it time and time again at the dais. What I don't support taking it to a process to figure out how to do a strategic plan. What they said was Give it the health department, apply a health lens to it, and go and go about that process of establishing
Speaker 9: a strategic plan. That's clear to me. What's not clear to me is saying staff go back without giving direction to them and say, come back with a two from four. On what this process might look like. That's more unclear for me.
Speaker 0: Okay. So let me first got to say, if.
Speaker 9: We if we want to make if there are concerns and making sure it's inclusive of all youth, I think that stuff's fine. That's more direction.
Speaker 0: Mr.. Mr.. Parkin, you wanted to comment.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mayor. Just from a technical standpoint on addressing the issue of changing the funding, I believe this was originally in the city manager budget and supported by the mayor. I'm looking at it right here. I agree. But means B or C is recommending A changing of the funding on it.
Speaker 2: So if you are adopting. That's right. No, no, you're right. Item 15, you could change it in a way I want to.
Speaker 0: So. Well, that and you're actually right. So it's actually part of the city manager's projects. It's it'll be the next item.
Speaker 4: Next item? Yep. Okay. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Councilman Austin.
Speaker 8: Honestly, Mitt, I'm confused at this point.
Speaker 5: I think we all are.
Speaker 8: I want to support the mayor's recommended budget, I think. I mean, obviously, A, B or C did some some some very I want to say forensic type work. I mean, we went deep did did a deep dove into the budget, into the city manager's recommendation, as well as the mayor's recommendations, and came back with a recommendation in
Speaker 8: a few hours ago that was, I thought, very prudent and very thoughtful, but a budget that probably is not going to pass muster this evening with the majority of the council. And that's clear. We we listen to the public.
Speaker 8: And I, again, commend all of those who are present who have advocated very, very vociferously for for a youth fund, something that I support. But I also want to just be very clear that this whole idea of of funding, senior programing, you know, I brought it forward in B or C, I brought it forward to my colleagues
Speaker 8: . And I think I've talked to too many of you about some of the challenges we have for our seniors in our community. And when we talk about equity, we want to be equitable with with how we how we treat folks who have lived in this community and contributed to the city for many, many years.
Speaker 8: And so I want to be clear that that I support further funding senior programing because I've seen the benefits and how it builds communities, particularly in my district. I also want to say maybe this is part of the next next item and I'm happy to speak more to it then.
Speaker 8: But in February we made a commitment to community that we would explore. That is the next item, but we'd explore, you know, establishing an African-American arts and cultural center in the city. I know I've been talking offline with many of my colleagues about doing that.
Speaker 8: And so in this next item, I hope that we can we look at putting forth some seed money for for outreach and visioning, that visioning process that would include the development of a task force comprised of stakeholders who are very much interested in helping the city establish that.
Speaker 8: So I just wanted to put my voice to that. And aside from that, I will be supporting the mayor's recommendations.
Speaker 0: Pick a councilman. I councilman place.
Speaker 6: Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, and to my colleagues. So a couple of things that I'm hearing that I want to make sure that we clarify. I'm all in favor of us allocating money to the youth. But I cannot and will not support a program that doesn't have or funding that doesn't have a city wide approach to
Speaker 6: it. I just want I understand and I appreciate and I respect the outreach that has been done. However, many of us have had community meetings where there has been no presentation on the topic regarding where the money would be spent.
Speaker 6: It's been presented very much as a broad category of funding to be determined in terms of expenditures with stakeholders, including youth throughout the city. So I am completely in support of supporting youth programing, but it has to be a citywide effort for me to support funding it.
Speaker 6: It's got to be something that touches every single district. I want every single one of our districts to be involved. I want the youth in every single part of this city to thrive regardless of what. Let's not make assumptions about what people's obstacles in life are.
Speaker 6: Let's just not make those assumptions. I've learned how to speak English when I was seven, was raised in a single parent family. Let's not make assumptions about what what youth need. Youth all over the city need support. They all need support to thrive.
Speaker 6: And they might need it in different ways. Some youth in parts of the city might need help with drug addiction issues right now. Huge issue in my district. We want those individuals to thrive. We want them to be involved in programing.
Speaker 6: So I'm not going to support anything. I will not vote on anything if it's going to go to a specific group with specific programmatic aspects to it right now. And I'm also not going to support anything that's kind of this loosey goosey.
Speaker 6: Let's just put money out there and come up with a plan. If we're going to come up with a plan, great. We're not going to spend any of it until that plan comes to council. And we talk about where that money is going to be spent.
Speaker 6: But I cannot at a time where $100,000 or $200,000 might mean additional core services for our residents support, something that I don't completely understand in terms of how the expenditures are going to be made. So I support money going to the youth.
Speaker 6: Absolutely. I support the mayor's recommendation as it was drafted. I support our commissions being involved in recommendations because they too are major stakeholders in the city. And I support us having a discussion about how we can make sure that general fund dollars impact all aspects of the city.
Speaker 6: So that's that in terms of the mayor's recommendations. I want to hear my colleague's recommendations on some of the other topics or their thoughts on some of the other topics. I will say, and I've shared this with the community that's come forward on the justice fund.
Speaker 6: My personal opinion is that tax dollars should not be used to fund individual legal battle battles. That's my personal opinion. I do not believe that we should use general fund dollars to fund individual legal claims, whether they be expungement of a prior arrest record so that people can get jobs, whether it be in the area of immigration
Speaker 6: , whether it be disputes among neighbors. I do support us seeking grant funding. For us to be able to support our residents. And if that means that we we put forth some money to help that grant funding. That's something I could live with.
Speaker 6: But I do think it's important for us to recognize that this is the first time that we're funding this. And we need to be mindful that the estimates of how much money might actually be drawn down from it might be less than what we're predicting now.
Speaker 6: So I'm I'm in favor of putting forth. And look, I'm mindful the vote you know, that vote will probably pass with or without my support. I get it. I've been very honest with the with the community that I that I've met with.
Speaker 6: And I very much appreciate them meeting with me. I've been very honest with them about it. So there's nothing and there will never be anything to face in any communications I have with them. That's my opinion. But I do think that we should maybe and I know it's something that's going to pass by council, but let me
Speaker 6: just put it out there. If it's really, truly a grant that we want to get to help fund these efforts, why don't we put forth the money that we think we need to get the grant, and then if we need more, we can reassess it at that point, instead of putting forth a large chunk of money that
Speaker 6: we may not need in order to meet the needs, we don't even know what the needs are yet. I am aware that other cities have established this fund. I'm also aware that in a lot of those other cities, because of the support of a lot of privately funded legal aid institutions, they have not drawn on general fund
Speaker 6: or taxpayer dollars to the level that they thought they were going to need to, because they've been able to use a lot of resources that are pro-bono in nature. So I think my preference would be what's what is the minimum that we think we need to do if this is the effort that the council wants to support
Speaker 6: to get a grant? And if we're able to get that grant, then maybe we reassess at that point. If we get $100,000 grant and we're putting in 250, do we really need 350 to fund this program for the first year?
Speaker 6: Are we going to get $350,000 in legal fees that we're going to have to pay? Maybe we're only going to get 200,000. I'd rather we we take a look at that and address it later. I think there's a lot of pro-bono services available.
Speaker 6: I see them every day in the courthouse that I work at. I think that we should be trying to explore those to help our residents. So the other thing that I say to council is, look, I understand the issue.
Speaker 6: I really.
Speaker 5: Do. But at what.
Speaker 6: Point are we going to say now if we have people come and say we would like right now there's a there's a program whereby you can get your arrest records and your criminal conviction records expunged for the purposes of future employment.
Speaker 6: If someone comes and says, I want the city to help me with getting my ex, my prior conviction expunged so that I can get a job. Where do we say to them, No, we can't do that because we're choosing to support this legal battle as opposed to this other legal battle?
Speaker 6: Because I'll tell you, for people that want to get a job and they have a misdemeanor or a felony, that they can easily get expunged with very little legal resources and assistance. But they don't know how to do it.
Speaker 6: They might want the city to help fund that. And at what point do we say immigration's more important to us than you getting a record expunged? Which is a very simple procedure. But if someone doesn't have understanding of the legal system, they won't know what forms to fill out.
Speaker 6: So I just think it's a slippery slope. When we start using taxpayer dollars to fund individual legal battles, it has nothing to do with the content of the legal battle. Nothing in my opinion. However, it's a slippery slope.
Speaker 6: Let's say we get a special interest group tomorrow that's organized, that comes to council meetings, that that that perseveres. And they say, we want help expunging our criminal records. What do we say? No, we don't want you to have job opportunities for low level misdemeanors.
Speaker 6: Are we going to say that? I just think that's an important conversation that we need to have, because if we're willing to do it for one group, we should be willing to do it for another. And my recommendation would be, let's figure out ways as a city to help find these pro bono resources, help educate, help, do
Speaker 6: outreach, all of that I'm in favor of. I just think when we start funding individual legal battles, it's a huge slippery slope. But maybe we can do outreach. Maybe we can do connect. And services. Maybe we can do other things that connect people to the services that might already be out there, or to that establish a limited
Speaker 6: fund for us to be able to get matching funds. I just think we can't pick and choose winners in terms of who gets tax dollars to help fund legal battles, because there's a lot of people out there who can't get jobs because they have convictions that an employer won't overlook.
Speaker 6: And I know that right now they have people people have all manner of convictions, whether it be, you know, a conviction that's currently eligible for diversion that maybe four or five years ago wasn't eligible for diversion. And now in order for them to get it expunge, it literally is an hour of an attorney's work, but that's 1500
Speaker 6: dollars for a person. And it's not fair for that person because they don't have 1500 dollars. They could go into a self-help clinic and figure out how to do it, but it's hard for them. So and I get that I'm just I just you know, I respect the opinions of everyone.
Speaker 6: I just wanted to share mine. And I don't know where that all falls, but I wanted to share my opinion. So thank you for the grace and the courtesy.
Speaker 0: Thank you, councilwoman. And yeah, and I think it's important to remember that we can all have different opinions and that's okay. And that we're on, we're all getting through the budget and that's fine. And I want to thank everyone for for, you know, having these important conversations.
Speaker 0: And so I appreciate that. Let me just also, as a reminder, because I know we've had a few folks chime in on this, and it's been I've been reminded by the city attorney again, which I appreciate that the budget on youth the youth budget line item is actually in the city manager's budget.
Speaker 0: I mention it in my recommendations, but it's actually it will be part of the next discussion. And so I know it's been brought up a few times, so we can have that discussion next. And so I just again, this is just to the items that are funded in the mayor's budget.
Speaker 0: Councilwoman Mingo.
Speaker 5: Okay, so I'll reserve my comments on the Youth and Senior Fund for the next item, but I will provide some context and comments to the comments made by my colleagues. Any item that comes before the city council. We often get both pro against and alternatives, and alternatives aren't necessarily pro or against.
Speaker 5: And I will say that. This year's shortened budget cycle due to elections and committee changes and all those things is particularly frustrating because when the mayor's budget came forward, I was approached by several interest groups that wanted to help.
Speaker 5: There were. I was actually called by the president of the Long Beach Bar Association, who said we provide free legal services every Tuesday at the courthouse for immigration and expungement. And how is it that there's a community that's unaware of this?
Speaker 5: What have we done that we could have done better to provide that information? They actually then, through a dialog over several weeks, proposed a couple of different things. The President wasn't able to be here today because he has a case tomorrow in Sacramento.
Speaker 5: And so he flew out today at 2:00. But he had actually even stated, similar to what Councilwoman Price had said, related to the amount of money sometimes being leveraged from our our most vulnerable constituencies. Those constituencies can often be charged upwards of 1500 or $4,000 for an expungement, an expungement that could be filled out through one single
Speaker 5: sided, one double sided piece of paper. And so what I also recognize about the process tonight is it's a step. It's setting aside money. There's still a second component of the process. One is that we, in the current effort, 18, the 100,000 of the justice fund that was discussed was actually put into a grant proposal to Vera
Speaker 5: . Vera has not come back and let us know yet if they will be matching that fund at that time, whether they do or don't. That's when the next dialog starts. And so I hope that the individuals who approached me because I was chair of Budget also take the time to approach other members of the council to put
Speaker 5: forward their opportunities. Because if we have a group of lawyers who are willing to pro-bono on Saturdays, go to different works or centers or different locations throughout the city on weekends or times that people are actually available to fill out their forms, that's great.
Speaker 5: It just means that the fund would be utilized less. And in talking with some of the lawyers from the Long Beach Bar Association, they even talked about the number one barrier to getting an expungement. Is that the penal code listed on a ticket and the penal code on the conviction aren't the same.
Speaker 5: And it's actually a multi-week process for a resident to go get their own records where a lawyer through the Bar Association can just put in a list to the judges and get them all provided, and so that a constituent who needs an expungement could literally get it done in 20 minutes and the paralegals can go and do
Speaker 5: all the other work for them and save the fund the 1500 dollars, because the Bar Association can do it for about $45 a person. And so there are these other options that need to be explored. But again, as mentioned, I think that it's important to see that the mayor's priorities have funding set aside.
Speaker 5: It does not necessarily mean that it'll all be used because, again, as Councilman Price said, it's used on an as needed basis as the funds are drawn down and or leveraged through grants or other things that have not yet come to fruition.
Speaker 5: And so for those reasons, I appreciate and respect the mayor's messaging on the matter and recognize that. Just allocating the money doesn't actually implement the process. And so for the Expungements, that works through Doug Albert's office and then the legal fees are through the Viera program, should we get the grant?
Speaker 5: And if we don't get the grant, that's another discussion that would have to be had at that time. But just for everyone to know that both sides are being heard. I know that some of the constituency groups that reached out to Councilman Price also reached out to me and that those discussions and dialogs are robust and continuing
Speaker 5: to be considered. The same will be stated when we get to the next item, specifically for the Youth Fund, because there was a considerable amount of input that came in not just from the people's budget but others that were considered.
Speaker 5: So thank you for that.
Speaker 0: Thank you. And then Councilman Rangel, have the final comment. Let me let me just add, I think I think everything that was said is correct. With all programs like this, by the way, we're going to work our butts off to get grant funding, as much grant funding and outside support for these funds as possible.
Speaker 0: And so absolutely, if we're able to fundraise a significant amount of dollars, which I'm intending to do and hopefully others will as well, that's that's true in all of the types of funds that we set aside that we if we can if we have if there's if there's less need and we're able to get the funding in
Speaker 0: place, I absolutely we plan on doing that. I know the community has also been bringing grants to our attention in these areas. And so that's our plan. And so we're going to do whatever we can to to do these funding, cut through your income, and then we're moving on to the next item.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mayor. And actually, I think this discussion that we've had thus far is a precursor to the next item, because actually this is this item right here is just looking at the mayor's proposed budget. When I went to his first budget meeting, when he introduced his budget, I thought it was a fantastic which I thought was
Speaker 2: great. A lot of great ideas were put in there. We're hiring people, we're reestablishing some programs and we're adding some new stuff. And I thought that was great. Now we're going to work. Now we're here at the point where we're looking at it with a little finer tooth comb.
Speaker 2: We're trying to flush out some of the good stuff and flush out some of the bad stuff. But I think that the budget at the Metropolitan is the item right here adopted the next budget. So I'm ready to vote on this and let's move forward to the next item when all this other discussion will take place.
Speaker 2: Because I have also I want to talk about the the the language access program and we look at actually more money in that, but that's in the title. So I will I will hold that back on that until that comes up.
Speaker 0: So thank you. There's a motion and a second. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 6: What are we voting on right now?
Speaker 0: The mayor's proposed.
Speaker 2: As amended by the Bossi.
Speaker 1: Okay. Motion case.
Speaker 0: Okay. Thank you very much. We're going to make sure post-budget also included the restorations to the fire engine and the new police officers. Just as a note. Okay. The next item we're going to take, I know that I'm talking to the chair.
Speaker 0: We're going to take a one minute, one minute break and two minute break, and we're going to start with the next part of the budget. It's also really it's also just really important that this is the most important decision that the council does every night.
Speaker 0: And so I know that it's frustrating. There's a lot of back and forth, but it's okay for us to have dialog and so we have a long night ahead of us. We always do with the budget. I just want to make sure for the council it's like a two minute break.
Speaker 0: We've got a lot of work to do. This is the biggest decision we do. So let's continue that work. Okay, so we'll take a two minute recess. We'll come back to the next item.
Speaker 3: The. That's. And. Fits. That was part of. And. And I'll hold on for. But. And.
Speaker 0: Okay. I'm going to I'm going to ask the the clerk to please go ahead and.
Speaker 1: Councilwoman Gonzalez. Councilmember Pearce. Councilwoman Price Councilmember super not here. Councilwoman Mongo. Vice Mayor Andrews.
Speaker 3: Councilmember Miranda. Presented.
Speaker 1: Councilman Austin. Councilmember Richardson. Mayor Garcia. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Can I please have guys. Everyone in the in the chambers, please. Either grab a seat or please take a step outside. I got to have it quiet for the council. So if I can have the council back first, I'd like to ask for a motion to reconsider the last item, which was the mayor's recommendations.
Speaker 0: So first, if I can get a motion or second to reconsider that. Got it. Kate. Thank you.
Speaker 9: Point of order, Devon. To the mover in the second half to have voted in the affirmative on the.
Speaker 5: Affirmative of the reconsideration.
Speaker 9: Okay. I'm looking at the second question.
Speaker 0: So hope so. Is there a public comment on the reconsideration motion saying none. Our members, please go ahead and cast your votes.
Speaker 1: Motion case.
Speaker 0: Thank you very much. I'd like to now also ask for a motion. There are some. I want to make sure that people are able to vote for the things they want to vote for. And I think there is some confusion as well as to what the last vote was and maybe wasn't.
Speaker 0: And so what I'm going to do, because I want to make sure that folks can vote for the things we support in the budget. And so I'm going to ask for the mayors recommendations to be voted on with the exception of the justice fund, which will be voted on in the next motion after this after this vote
Speaker 0: . So if I can get a motion in a second on that, please.
Speaker 6: Mr. Mayor, can I just ask for clarification on the mayor's recommendation for the youth fund? Is there any specification on what departments are going to handle that or what's going to be used for?
Speaker 0: No.
Speaker 5: Okay, great.
Speaker 0: Okay. There's a motion and executive mayor.
Speaker 2: I think to answer the council person's question.
Speaker 0: I call it out in the mayor's proposal, but it's actually in the city manager. Yes. So it will be discussion that night and the next night. Okay. Okay. There's a there's a motion in a second to pass the mayor's recommendations separate of the justice funds so that folks can can vote on the whole thing.
Speaker 0: Please cast your votes.
Speaker 5: Wait. Wait.
Speaker 7: Oh, yeah. Motion carries.
Speaker 0: Thank you. And so, just to be clear, everyone voted on those. And now we're going to have a vote on the justice fund. So please cast your votes.
Speaker 3: Wait.
Speaker 5: Wait.
Speaker 6: I want to queue up to comment.
Speaker 0: Okay.
Speaker 3: Yes.
Speaker 6: It's moving very fast. I'm going to be voting no on this. And the reason is because I do not believe public funds should be used to fund personal legal issues regardless of the content of the personal legal battle.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 8: I wanted to just to add something on this as well, because I do know that the state legislature passed legislation in the last year to establish legal defense funds statewide. And I was just just curious, wanted to hear from staff whether or not those are those funds are available to us on a local level to perhaps help
Speaker 8: leverage what we are we are doing here this evening in this this budget.
Speaker 0: And I can I can add and step one said so I think something I mentioned to one of the councilmembers members. Absolutely. And so I think our goal, as is with any fund that we establish, is we're going to reach out for grants, state funding that is looking like it could be available as part of the state
Speaker 0: process, as well as nonprofit grants. And we will always use those funds that we can acquire elsewhere first and always use those funds as as best we can. The funds that we establish that if those funds don't become available or if there are their immediate issues, those can be used immediately.
Speaker 0: But absolutely. Councilman Ashton, we're going to be looking at those at that process as well. And so, Mr. Modica, did you want to add to that or someone from our team?
Speaker 2: Yeah. Kevin Jackson, our deputy city manager, can talk a little bit about the strategy for securing funding. Thanks for your thanks, Mr. Walker. Yeah, the, um. The intent is to, I mean, at a baseline to apply for the matching funds for.
Speaker 2: From the very Institute of Justice. So any any funding that the city allocates to this fund, we will apply for the match from the Institute of Justice in a matter of $100,000. And certainly, as we talked about in March, when we talked about the Long Beach Values Act in setting up the fund, the strategy would be to
Speaker 2: work to identify a philanthropic philanthropic contribution, set up the fund so that we could facilitate the investment of philanthropic contributions, whether it be from the nonprofit sector or individual contributions as well. And I do want to add that while the staff had set aside $100,000 and therefore I 18 in order to apply for those that $100,000 matching
Speaker 2: fund, then the recommendation you're considering now is another 150. That is all coming back to the council. So even if you vote tonight, there is going to need to be a vote on the actual contract with the IRA to move forward.
Speaker 2: And so we would be coming back to you with that if you choose to move forward.
Speaker 0: That's great. Thank you, Mr. Murphy. But, Mr. Austin, that got your question. Thank you. Customer prices. Customer price.
Speaker 6: Yeah. So I'm wondering if there's any way this was the mayor's recommendation. So obviously it's the intent of the mayor and proposing this. And, of course, the council colleagues who have interpreted the mayor's recommendation. I'm wondering if there's any interest by my council colleagues to add in some further parameters on this that would allow for us to
Speaker 6: be able to support it. Taking into consideration some of the concerns that some have, such parameters could include such things as we would apply. We would use fundraising dollars and or money that is obtained through grants, through matching grants, through fundraising dollars.
Speaker 6: First and foremost, that that would be the strategy and that if we did needed to tap into the general fund, that there would be a recommendation to council about what that general fund moneys would be used for. Because I'll tell you in my mind, there's two different things.
Speaker 6: And I guess for me I'm not quite understanding because I deal. I'm a work in a courthouse all day long, so I'm envisioning that individuals are going to have legal claims and the city is going to be allocating money for individual legal claims.
Speaker 6: Perhaps that's wrong. Perhaps there is a model where we are allocating funds that may be city dollars, that may be general fund dollars for us to support a program that encompasses legal defense as well as education and outreach, which is something that I would be more inclined to support than a fund that is designed to address individual
Speaker 6: legal, personal, legal issues. So I think if it were to come back to council and we were able to find a partner.
Speaker 3: Whereby.
Speaker 6: It's a broader scope in terms of what the money is used for, I would be more comfortable with it. I'm just putting that out there. If that's something people aren't interested in. I understand we can agree to respectfully disagree, but I firmly do not believe that taxpayer dollars should be used to fund individual legal expenses.
Speaker 6: But I am open to the issue coming back to I'm fine setting the money aside and not spending it and spending it only after council has more direction and more clarity on exactly what the money would be used for.
Speaker 6: And I don't know if staff has a maybe a proposal that encompasses what I might be referencing since you have more expertize on this than I do. But again, the recommendation is a very short recommendation and there's a lot that could be read into it or assumed from it.
Speaker 2: So what we understand about tonight would be what would to be that is setting aside the funds, it would be showing that there is funding set aside for this. And then we would come back for a separate discussion on the contract with Vera and what that would mean and how that would all be done.
Speaker 2: That would all be coming back to you for another vote. So by by allocating this money, we don't have a staff mechanism to to put this money out. We would be using a partner and there needs to be a contract with that partner.
Speaker 2: So that would be coming back.
Speaker 6: And, and so Mr. Modica and I did read the TFF on this. What kind of services does Vera provide that would be funded through general tax dollars? And are the services that they provide such that they could be that they could be bifurcated so that private funds could be used for individual legal defense and public funds could
Speaker 6: be used for outreach and education?
Speaker 2: I asked Mr. Jackson to respond to that. Please. The members of the County Council on Price and members of the Council, the Institute of Justice. They are expertize in facilitating the provision of legal services to undocumented immigrants in need of those who are facing deportation.
Speaker 2: They in doing that, they serve as a program manager and a program evaluator. And so their motto is to work with a Y, a nonprofit community legal services provider or group of those providers to provide those direct those legal services directly to the community.
Speaker 2: And so they partner with city organizations to receive grants, and then they in turn match those grants and then hire a nonprofit legal services provider or a group of providers to provide those services to the community. They also provide education and outreach services to support the legal services.
Speaker 5: Okay. So so we could.
Speaker 6: Theoretically speaking, we would be able to use privately funded dollars for aspects of the very contract and publicly funded dollars for other aspects.
Speaker 2: I think theoretically we could we could structure a program in that manner. I think the primary service partnership with Viera would be the community legal services for it, for immigrant defense. But in terms of the agreement that we bring back that Mr. Modica spoke of, we could work to structure the fund in a way that that meets
Speaker 2: our needs locally. However, I just want to you know, I want to be clear about the the Service that Bureau provides, the primary service that Viera provides is to support the community legal services. And our idea, as well as this idea and working to provide this this service is to leverage the funding as much as we possibly
Speaker 2: can. So with the primary sources being a city, a city, a city allocation along with the the canvas grant from Viera with any other community funds. So it is it is possible to structure it that way. And certainly when we bring the item back, we could talk about that.
Speaker 2: But the way that it's actually done typically is the funding is blended and the primary service is community legal services. I mean, that's.
Speaker 6: And I understand that. So what I'm asking because I would be inclined to support this if staff were to commit that we could at least try to structure something when it comes back so that it does not blend the funds.
Speaker 6: Because because I think there's a you know, there are some tax dollars that go to fund legal defense, but those involve constitutional rights of individuals who cannot afford their own legal representation and are in a situation where their liberties are at risk, such as in a criminal matter, in a civil matter, we do not have such constitutional
Speaker 6: rights. And it's it's it's again, as I've indicated, it's a slippery slope in terms of what causes we want to fund with public dollars. So if if staff believes that, should this come back, there might be a way that staff can work with the service provider to structure an agreement that allows us to be able to support
Speaker 6: the efforts of outreach, education, advisement of rights, direction of resources, translation services, all those things, but not funding an attorney to actually represent an individual in court through public dollars. If we think there might be a way we could structure the funds that way, then I would support it.
Speaker 6: But if staff is saying we don't know or that's not going to happen because that's not the way they do it, that's I'd like to know that.
Speaker 2: Okay. Well, Councilwoman Price, members of the council, I mean, I can say confidently that that that does not reflects Vera's model. Their model is to facilitate the provision of community legal services for undocumented immigrants facing deportation. That is that is simply the model.
Speaker 2: And the idea is to leverage local funding and other community contributions in order to provide that service through a partnership with either one or more nonprofit legal community legal service providers. So that that is the model with the other, you know, with the existing 12 Safe Cities Network participants, you know, including the cities of Oakland and Sacramento
Speaker 2: and others.
Speaker 1: Okay.
Speaker 6: So so what I'm hearing is that if we were to vote for this, what we would be voting for. I understand we're just setting the money aside tonight, but we're not voting for something directly right now. And I get that.
Speaker 6: But I don't know why we would pass the buck so that we can have it easy night tonight. I'd rather have the realistic discussion tonight. What we're voting on is we would put the money aside. Once there comes a time to use the money.
Speaker 6: That money would be most likely used in a partnership with Vera, and Vera's model is limited to using local dollars to fund individual lawsuits. And there's really no way for us to structure a different model. And there's no other partner we can work with.
Speaker 2: Well, there, there there are additional partners and there's no other partner at this point in time. I think the best approach at this point in time, the most efficient, effective way to do it, given various expertize, is to partner with Viera and their model includes working with community based service providers so they don't provide the service directly
Speaker 2: . They oversee the service to ensure that services provide it correctly and that it's evaluated to determine its effectiveness. And they partner with the participating cities to do that. So the relationship with Viera is to procure the expertize, to identify the the appropriate partner in the community, to provide the service to the intended beneficiaries.
Speaker 6: Okay. Okay. So simply said we would be using money from Long Beach taxpayers to fund legal expenses of unnamed individuals. Unknown unnamed individuals.
Speaker 2: That is correct. It would be a combination of city funds, funds provided by Viera and funds provided by citizens of the community, as well as any foundations or other nonprofit organizations that are interested in participating in the fund.
Speaker 6: Okay. Well, I appreciate that clarification, and I still maintain the same concerns. And I think while we can say we're not really voting on anything tonight other than just to set the money aside, I think that would be disingenuous.
Speaker 6: I think if we're going to vote in favor of this, it should be and it should be a very strong and powerful were voting in favor of this. And we understand how the money is going to be spent and we're okay with that.
Speaker 6: Or it should be we're voting to put the money aside and we're not comfortable with how the money is going to be spent. So that's why we're voting against it. At least that's my thought process, because I think the, you know, constituents who are advocating for this need to know honestly where folks stand.
Speaker 6: And like I'll say it again, and I know people are going to interpret things how they want. It's not the content. I just don't think we should be funding individual legal claims, period, using public funds unless it's for a constitutional right such as a criminal defense.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilmember.
Speaker 4: Councilmember Brown. Thank you. So my understanding is we're not approving Vera tonight. We're that's what I understood, Mr. Modica, to say that tonight we're voting to set some funding aside. Then city staff will have to come back to us with a proposal from Vera.
Speaker 2: Yes, that's correct. We have sent up a two from four. We've done our research. We believe this is the way to achieve the goals that the council directed us to do. But you are not approving that tonight. You're going to prove that later in the process.
Speaker 4: Okay. So the scope of my knowledge of Vera is is a two from four memo from staff to myself. And also whatever research I could do online, my meetings with my constituents, I had to tell them that I had serious doubts about this meeting.
Speaker 4: The needs are their expectations based on the parameters or encumbrances set forth by Vera. For that reason, I think there's a lot of scrutiny to be done with this with this program. And I'm not saying staff didn't do the very best and come with the best company at all.
Speaker 4: I'm not saying that. But there may be another company out there who more closely aligns with the needs of our community. So I can support the funding being set aside tonight without locking into a particular vendor. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilmember Councilman Mongo.
Speaker 5: Is it my understanding that if he did not receive the grant, you would explore other options of other nonprofits to work directly with? And is it also my understanding that you only explored VOA and did not reach out to Long Beach nonprofit organizations that provide free legal services for immigrants already including but not limited to the Long
Speaker 5: Beach Bar Association.
Speaker 2: Councilwoman Mongeau and members of the council. We we did do research on other potential partners for this effort, and it did not include the the Bar Association. The we evaluate it, the L.A. Justice Fund. If you recall, we talked about the gaps in the L.A. Justice funding last March.
Speaker 2: We also provided some information on the very Institute of Justice, who is pretty much the pioneer in establishing Justice Fund across America. The very Institute of Justice is also a participant in the L.A. Justice Fund. But the L.A., what we found is that the L.A. Justice Fund has particular sort of rules and guidelines that limit our ability
Speaker 2: to target those funds here locally. So hence the idea of setting up a local locally based fund. So VRA is sort of the leading edge organization in in the Nation, actually, and here in California, facilitating the provision of these services.
Speaker 2: We did look at you know, we looked at the other community foundations that are participating in the justice fund. We looked at the Long Beach Community Foundation. And we just found in the end that the Vera Institute of Justice, from an expertize standpoint, from an experience standpoint and from a cost standpoint, was the most efficient and effective
Speaker 2: option in front of us at this time. And, you know, it's obviously a relatively new service. And with Vera being a pioneer, particularly in evaluating the effectiveness of these funds and also being in a position to oversee the program management so that the city does not have to do that.
Speaker 2: They were they were very unique from any other organization here in the region as well as nationally. So I think the recommendation that we're making is is is is based upon that analysis and and the fact that Vera is sort of the pioneer when it comes to administering these type of programs.
Speaker 5: So my comments are, I hope, in alignment with some of the things that my colleagues and I have promoted. First and foremost, I know that Councilwoman Gonzalez and I strongly encourage Long Beach local nonprofits and businesses to receive priority.
Speaker 5: And so if there's any way that Vera would focus on a Long Beach based nonprofit for the support of their funds, we don't know how they would be as well. Vila chooses the nonprofit, and so if there's any way for us to, through our application, encourage them to choose a Long Beach nonprofit that always is, of course
Speaker 5: , preferred for a couple of reasons. One, they know the Long Beach residents best. They're more local. They're more accessible. They also can create longer term investments in the community. Second, I think it's really important to recognize that the California Police Chiefs Association, our Local Police Officers Association and others have very strong belief systems that are completely counter
Speaker 5: to the belief systems and the action areas promoted by Viera. And again, like on this dais, we don't all agree on everything, but it's important that when we fund an organization in the six figure category that we take into consideration all the things that the money can be used for.
Speaker 5: And so what I am always a supporter of is setting aside funds to figure out how to leverage other funds. I do also have some conflicts when we have members of our community who come forward and say, I'm a veteran with a Section eight permit and I was at the Section eight office and I received a parking
Speaker 5: ticket on Veteran's Day, and I'm looking to get a waiver for my parking ticket. And this is an individual who's low income, all of these things. And they are asking the city for a reprieve from a fee that we give.
Speaker 5: And we as a city say no to those things, even though in our values we want to appreciate veterans and their service and not take money from low income communities and not take money from individuals who are struggling to find housing.
Speaker 5: But we as a city have a policy that we don't waive those fees. And so then on a small level, we're saying no to our priorities of of are you going to $55 fee of a veteran in need?
Speaker 5: And then here as a council, we're talking about setting aside a quarter of $1,000,000 for individuals, which we will have very little context of once the money's given to Vera. And so. Or any other organization. So I. I would love for staff to explore options within our own legal community including but not limited to the currently provided
Speaker 5: free legal services. The third Tuesday of every month at the courthouse by the Masters Long Beach Bar Association. And looking at those opportunities as well, because there is a chance that Vera won't give us the matching funds and that that would not be the recommendation as you bring it back.
Speaker 5: Of course, we have hope that we would be able to put up 100 and receive 100. I actually had hoped that we'd put up 60 and receive a hundred like some other cities have. And I know Mr. Jackson and I have discussed that extensively, but that isn't the direction that it is today.
Speaker 5: And so what I will say is. I'm open to setting aside some funding to show a an understanding of it, a commitment of a possibility of a funding through an outside organization. But I. I have serious concerns about.
Speaker 5: The totality of what the funds could be used for, because many members of our own community and city staff don't agree with the complete action areas of the Vera Institute. And so if staff are able to bring a report back on alternatives at that time, it would be appreciated.
Speaker 5: But I recognize that. That's at Steph's discretion.
Speaker 2: Counts one of the longer members of the council. We can absolutely do that.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilor Pearce.
Speaker 5: That was a great answer. Done, huh? I'll be showing I. I want to say two things. One is that I think when we first had this conversation, the direction was clear in our goals and what we wanted to to be able to do.
Speaker 5: I think we each have different reasons for why we support this item. For me, when we talk about using taxpayer money for legal support, both this item and expungement, it's around public safety, right? It's not about giving one community, you know, a handout, giving them some money just because maybe they don't have it.
Speaker 5: It's about public safety. When we talk about governing for equity and making sure that we're not filling our jails to the absolute capacity when somebody doesn't have their record expunged or they don't know where to go, they likely are going to get back into that system.
Speaker 5: If they're somebody that is struggling with their immigration status and they have some some past history, they might not trust local PD as much as they would if they actually had a process with an immigration attorney. And so for me, this item is about the whole picture, about public safety.
Speaker 5: So for the council members that have some challenges with this, I just as we after today when this item comes back, I hope sometime between then and now we can have some one on one conversations around the public safety continuum and how we can have some measurable outcomes about what public safety looks like in Long Beach outside
Speaker 5: of PD and Fire. So I hope that we can vote and just get this get this pot of money moving forward. And we will have a full discussion when the next report comes back from there. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman Austin.
Speaker 8: So I want to spend the next half hour explaining my position. I honestly, I wasn't here for the Values Act debate that took place a few months ago. But I was able to to watch from a hotel room and and my thoughts about this this item I believe in.
Speaker 8: We are we're experiencing unconventional times as a result of, you know, very draconian policies coming from Washington, D.C. And I think those those policies and these unconventional times call for unconventional policies on an even a local level. And it's it's a fact that many of our residents, our families are are living in fear here in our city
Speaker 8: , throughout Los Angeles County, throughout the state, throughout the country, for that matter. This council actually approved state legislation for for us to become a sanctuary state. And I think it was it was like, okay, you know what? We support that in Sacramento.
Speaker 8: We see commitments coming from and in Sacramento actually committed, I'm reading close to $30 million, $30 million to to legal defense for for those particularly Dreamers. The L.A. County has made commitments. I think it's only responsible for us to make a commitment.
Speaker 8: And what we're talking about doing here is not it's not going to break us. I think it's it's it's unconventional. So definitely unconventional. But it's it's it's a I think it was a social responsibility that we have to have as a city council.
Speaker 8: We can't pass the buck to other public agencies and say it's okay for Sacramento, it's okay for L.A. County, but not okay for Long Beach. And so I support I'm going to support the justice fund. But however, I'm not married and I've heard some good conversation here this evening.
Speaker 8: I'm not specifically married to any specific nonprofit or funding or specifics on on how we fund this. If this is any preview of what this this item will be when it comes back, I'm sure it's going to be a robust conversation.
Speaker 8: But I think we need to move forward this evening and just just just pass the mayor's budget, as has proposed for the justice fund. And and we will deal with the details a little a little bit later on.
Speaker 8: I think it's just a good use of our time tonight. Let's make it make it happen.
Speaker 0: They could make a councilman. Councilwoman Gonzalez.
Speaker 1: Yes.
Speaker 6: I first want to just thank Kevin, who may or not may or may not be here, but I really want to thank. Oh, there you are. You're hiding. I just really want to thank you, because this was a lot of work.
Speaker 6: Both you and Katie worked very hard with many community members over many months.
Speaker 5: For the.
Speaker 6: Last almost year, actually. And there were many community meetings that happened. Both with you and PD in the room as well. And Will, they'll continue to be discussions with PD from these stakeholders as well, from what I understand.
Speaker 6: So I really appreciate that effort. So this was not like this is just slapped together. This was very thoughtful. You went through many different iterations of what nonprofit partnerships could look like. And I'll explain to you why.
Speaker 5: Just really quickly to.
Speaker 6: Clear some things up that have been mentioned, and I appreciate the comments from my.
Speaker 5: Colleagues, but there was.
Speaker 6: A lot of of.
Speaker 5: Thought.
Speaker 6: That went into this Central CHA Long Beach Immigrant Rights Coalition. They all hold citizenship workshops and the Long Beach Bar Association doesn't necessarily hold workshops either. And much of those are 30 minute consultations. They're not going to pay 4 to 5000 or $7,000 to stop you to get deported.
Speaker 6: That's just not going to happen.
Speaker 1: So actually, the Long Beach Bar Association, 30 minute consults two times a month, first come, first served.
Speaker 6: There's usually a line outside and very few people get seen and they only get 30 minutes. So they get information and they still have to put up 5 to $7000, if not upwards of $10,000, just to stop from getting deported.
Speaker 6: So I just want to make that clear. The Long Beach Bar Association, when you go on their website, not once does it say that they offer immigration services, family law, LGBTQ law, all these other elements. But not one is really an expert in immigration.
Speaker 6: So I just want to make sure we set that out there.
Speaker 1: We also have if we're looking at.
Speaker 6: Local, we do have the Legal Aid Legal Aid Foundation there on six and Pacific, and that's a great resource as well. A lot of people do go there. But again, we want to make sure.
Speaker 5: That we're being as understanding of this process as possible.
Speaker 1: And that we don't discredit the work.
Speaker 6: That so many community members have done because they've done a lot of work when it comes to this. Cambodian, Latino, Filipino and supporters. So just want to say thank you very much again to Kevin, to Katie, to all of our to the police officers that were there.
Speaker 6: We did a lot of great work on this. And I look forward to seeing more work and what the institute can do. And I did mention in that maybe it wasn't heard, but there's key performance indicators when we if we were to get this grant.
Speaker 6: This is there's a lot of transparency that goes on with Visa. And I think that's why a lot of cities utilize them. So I'll just leave it at that. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you so much. We'll get to Councilman Mongo and then we're going to get to the vote.
Speaker 5: My only last comment was I know that we often think that the direction is clear and we all comment on what we think we heard at any particular agenda. And Councilman Gonzales and I had a lot of talks about the Long Beach Values Act and going into that night.
Speaker 5: And one of the things that when I vote, I'm always open to exploring options to get funding. But what I think is a differentiating factor oftentimes is the difference between grant funding, general fund funding. Legal Aid Foundation is funded through government funds.
Speaker 5: They're funded specifically through a completely different type of funds that come from the state as well. And so just knowing and understanding, typically I'm more likely to vote for general fund money that draws down grants, but not for general fund funding that doesn't yet have that on it.
Speaker 5: And I think that part of that goes to when when you sit on a committee that gives grant funding, if you have to make choices between where the funding is getting leverage and, you know, when agencies are going to put up the money no matter what, you sometimes don't give them the matching.
Speaker 5: And so those are the kinds of concerns I have when we try to go into these competitive processes. So I look forward to hearing what drawdowns were eligible for from the 30 million and from other allocations. And I appreciate hearing the discussions of my colleagues and I look forward to the report back and the opportunity to have
Speaker 5: , again, a robust discussion both with the community and the stakeholders in advance of it returning to council and including my colleagues.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilman. And let me just say and I know we're going to a vote, let me just say first that I think it's important that we all respect each other's perspectives and opinions. And I think it's a complex issue.
Speaker 0: And so we're all I think everyone is able to voice where they stand on this issue. And I respect everyone's opinions and where they come from. I know I haven't mentioned this. And I you know, I've been compelled with all the conversation tonight just to say this.
Speaker 0: For me for me, the justice fund is about my personal experience. And when I was a kid growing up, not being a U.S. citizen, having a family there as immigrants, we were cheated multiple times by attorneys, people that were picking on us that set us back.
Speaker 0: We were Spanish speaking family. And we needed we needed legal assistance, we needed help. And very few people would help us through many horrible experiences that I went that we went through as a family. We finally got help and and we got assistance from from people that were that were doing the right thing and helped us get
Speaker 0: through that legal process. And so I think that while we may not have been citizens at the time, and I'm honored that, you know, today that our family is we we contributed to our city and to our community, and we're hard workers.
Speaker 0: And so I really for my where I come from in this support is I know that there are so many people in our community that have incredible language barriers and experiences that need that I believe need our support.
Speaker 0: And I and I that's why I support this fund. I think it's I do think it's the right thing to do. But I also respect where people are coming from. So thank you. And the motion is there. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 1: Ocean Case Council member Sabrina. Motion carries.