Meeting: LongBeachCC_08142018
Date: 2018-08-14

---

Speaker 0: Item 16. Communication from Councilman Price Councilmember Super nor Councilman Austin. Recommendation to request City Manager to work with various city departments to report back on how the city can better address or enforce beach violations and impacts on beaches and residents.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Price.
Speaker 9: Thank you. I'm asking my colleagues support tonight in supporting this item, which really underscores the importance of maintenance on our beaches. The item as written is pretty self-explanatory. So I don't want to waste your time by going into it other than to share that.
Speaker 9: In the third district, we have had a few incidents over the summer. We had one pretty serious incident where we had a junior guard participant step on a hypodermic needle and during the course of the summer, staff has been incredibly responsive.
Speaker 9: The city manager should really be applauded for his efforts to increase enforcement efforts on the beach and to make sure that encampments are cleaned up and dumped, items are cleaned up, and items that present a public health hazard are routinely identified and and cleaned cleaned up.
Speaker 9: But he's done so really in collaboration with multiple departments working together. Our police department and our Marine Patrol division have already been taking a lead on some of the homeless outreach efforts that we have. And of course, cleaning up our tagging for cleanup items that have been discarded on the beach, which has been really helpful.
Speaker 9: I think as we start to see more popularity and use of our beaches, especially with the recent Washington Post article declaring us as the city with the highest number of nice days, we're going to see more use of our beaches and of course, our parks and our open spaces.
Speaker 9: And I think it's it's important for us to continue to enforce the laws that we have for beach access, because the beaches, unlike a lot of other open spaces, require or invite people to be barefoot, to be digging, to be playing in an area where public safety hazards can be easily concealed.
Speaker 9: And so it's more important than ever that we start to really focus on continued beach maintenance and making that a priority in terms of our cleanup efforts in order to prevent any public health hazards such that we've seen over the summer and mitigate anything that might happen in the future.
Speaker 9: So I ask for my colleagues support.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Austin.
Speaker 7: I'm happy to support this item. Little known fact I spend a lot of time at the beach. It's where I find therapy and time with my dog and and usually on the weekends. And, you know, obviously, the the maintenance component is something is, I think, very important to the to the city of Long Beach.
Speaker 7: You know, we can't sell our city. We can't market our city the way we want to market our city. If our beaches and places of entertainment are not to the best that they should be. And so, so I'm happy to support this, um, and looking forward to, to gain some of the feedback from, from staff on this
Speaker 7: and looking to support it in any way I can. But I think more community organizations and neighborhood groups should adopt.
Speaker 4: You know.
Speaker 7: Beach cleanups, like just in what Rudd has done for many years, Heal the Bay. I've been a part of both of those beach cleanups. They happen pretty regularly. But we need more, more efforts like that to, uh, to really make an impact, but also more attention from, from our city resources as well.
Speaker 5: And so I'm happy to support this.
Speaker 7: Thanks for bringing it forward.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Pearce.
Speaker 6: And yes, I, I guess I would like to address that this item while I beginning, I wholeheartedly support cleaning up our beaches. I spend a lot of time on our beaches as well and definitely syringes and how we have well our trash cans.
Speaker 6: Ah, I know we've had lots of back and forth with public works about the best way to clean up our beaches. And so just on that item might ask a couple of questions just on the clean and safety part, since that's what the councilmember addressed in public in her comments.
Speaker 6: Could public could staff help us understand where we are with the type of trashcans that we have on our beach? And then, too, I know that we have machines that go out and they rake the sand and they pick up some of the debris.
Speaker 6: I've heard constituents talk about other other machines that do that better. I'm just curious if we have any assessment about how we actually clean from our sand, since that's the first thing.
Speaker 5: However, Craig, would you guys.
Speaker 4: Be able to answer the trash can question? Pardon. But if we don't have someone here answer the trash cans, we can certainly get that back to you. But certainly, we're one of the few cities in California that sweeps the speeches daily.
Speaker 4: So we have machines to do that. We did get an inquiry when Councilwoman Pryce mentioned that there was a needle issue on the beach. We prompted an inquiry from a company in the Midwest that is going to be showing us a vehicle that potentially could pick up something like that, like a needle or something like that.
Speaker 4: But we do have state of the art vehicles and we look at those. And if anybody has ideas for vehicles that we could, we certainly would look at those. But again, we are one of the few cities as we sweep speeches every single day and we're always looking at a better product.
Speaker 6: Great. Thank you for that. So I would just ask that in whatever report that comes back that that's included. I do recognize we have pockets where our beaches are extremely littered and pockets where where it's not.
Speaker 4: One of the things we do try to do is to do the big bellies at the beaches. So that right. So that so that so that it gets windy at the beach and trash doesn't spill and stuff. But we do have beaches on Friday.
Speaker 4: Saturday night, Sunday nights are just killed. Weather. It isn't just Long Beach. If you go to Huntington Beach or Bowl or anything, you can imagine the work that the maintenance crews are doing. Long Beach included at 6:00 in the morning, 7:00 in the morning on a on a Saturday or Sunday or Monday to take care of all
Speaker 4: of the the public activities on those nights. So, trashcans, I don't think it's possible to have enough trash cans where everybody will use. But definitely I want to let everybody know that when we've been addressing special events now.
Speaker 4: So we're pushing harder and harder and harder. So whenever there's a special event at the beach that there's.
Speaker 5: A walk through before.
Speaker 4: They leave, that they have to leave it as found. They have to put things near the trash can if, if, if it doesn't fit in the trash can so that we can pick it up first thing in the morning.
Speaker 4: So but we will get your report on that. And I've already the council has already asked us to look at adding trash cans along the beach.
Speaker 6: Right. And I know that, you know, that we ordered the big blue trash cans that are open on the top that the bags go in. But those are the exact kind of trash cans that get dumped over that people dig through.
Speaker 6: And I know that Public Works is looking at some options for a less expensive big belly option. So I would just it's been probably since the last budget, since we really talked about it. I would love to get a report back on that stuff.
Speaker 4: Thank you very.
Speaker 6: Much. Thank you. But the second thing is, I'm reading this item. And while yes, it's about beach cleanliness, I unfortunately, I'm reading it's about ordinance violations, crime. It's really about enforcement is how I read it. And so I just wanted to go on record in talking about how it is a challenge for us whenever we're talking about
Speaker 6: homelessness and crime and making sure that we are improving the enforceability of violations during beach hours, and that that's really what I read the purpose of this item, not so much just around the cleanliness. So I did want to ask our police chief just a couple of questions.
Speaker 6: I know that we have worked with our commanders and making sure that they're out there and enforcing. I wanted to ask, how many times a day do you think that we have officers that are down in our beach area?
Speaker 6: And what time of day do we do? We have folks out there and maybe is that the right time of day?
Speaker 5: Mayors, member of the city council. Councilwoman Pierce. It's we don't have regular scheduling down there. We periodically go down there. Both of our beach beats that are adjacent beach to the beach. They have jeeps where they're able to access the beach when there's dispatches and such down there.
Speaker 5: But and Deputy Chief Wally Ibish can talk a little bit more in detail if we need more detail. We do run specific operations that are as a result of specific complaints. So if we're getting complaints, no matter you name the time of the day or the day of the week, we will run operations concurrent with those problem
Speaker 5: days and and and times of the day where we have gotten significant stats, meaning people that we observe that are breaking the law who either get cited or arrested for things they shouldn't be doing. This is not just focusing on homeless because there are homeless people who are down there enjoying the beach as well during regular hours
Speaker 5: and that's okay. But if we go down there and someone is breaking the law, we do take enforcement action.
Speaker 6: And so on on that measure. Enforcement action, I guess drug use, things like that. What is an enforcement action for somebody doing drugs on the beach?
Speaker 5: For someone using drugs or in possession of drugs, every situation is different. But as you know, with Proposition 47, possession of drugs and using drugs is now a misdemeanor crime, which generally it's a citation. But that's not going to be 100% of the time, because if we contact somebody who either A is consistently a problem for us
Speaker 5: or we run them for warrants and we see an extensive history or they have warrants, they could end up going to jail. But it's the officer's discretion, depending on the violation that's occurring and the the individual's criminal history, whether they're going to cite and or arrest, which means actually taking them to booking and to our jail.
Speaker 6: Great. Thank you. I think that what I get a lot of constituent concerns on our beaches around what is what is a next step whenever they encounter something. And so we're constantly reminding folks just to call PD. And that's the biggest thing is having your presence down there.
Speaker 6: And I know this budget, we're addressing some of our staffing issues. So I think I guess my one other question for you. My last question I know we have a time certain would be is there an ordinance or a change to the muni code or ordinance that you feel like would change the situation on the beach that
Speaker 6: we as a city could do considering Prop 47 and everything else?
Speaker 5: I'd have to think about that a little bit more. There's always a possibility of doing a better job. So I would have to sit down with the city attorney's office, the city prosecutor's office, and do some brainstorming to see what can be done.
Speaker 5: But from as I sit here today, I believe that a lot of the laws that are on the books do help. But again, not to get into a long, drawn out conversation about criminal justice reform that works against us in a lot of these instances, specifically where a lot of the homeless people that we're dealing with.
Speaker 5: And again, I'm going to be very specific. All the homeless people we deal with do not have criminal histories. There is a percentage within that population that probably would have been in the Los Angeles County jail if it wasn't for criminal justice reform, who are out on our streets, specifically our beaches, who are the biggest challenges to
Speaker 5: our police officers on the street and the citizens who are complaining? And by the way, just for the public to know, there are several council people I'm looking at that have me on speed dial. Every time we're having these challenges and they have no problem getting a hold of either the city manager or myself when these issues
Speaker 5: arise.
Speaker 6: Great. Thank you for that. So I'll close out and just saying that I think that cleaning our beaches is a great item. I think the enforcement piece that's throughout this, I would have liked to have worked with that a little bit more in recognizing that if we have a population that cannot go into our jails, that no
Speaker 6: longer, that the idea of going to jail to sober up is no longer an option that we really implore a lot. And that on the back end it is the lack of having a space for people to have detox beds, for people to have a place to get better for mental health situations.
Speaker 6: And so really when I look at this item and some of our challenges on the beach, I just see it as an opportunity to highlight the need for us to continue our efforts that we've already done a great job on, on this Council to support those that are struggling with with mental health and addictions, because that seems
Speaker 6: to be the population that's down at our beach is causing some of the challenges. So I just wanted to put that in the record and make sure we talked about that a little bit. Thank you so much for coming in, answering some of those questions.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Got somebody, Ringo?
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mary. And I want to thank Councilmember Ginny Pierce for bringing up two points that were a concern to me and obviously to the to the presenters of this item. Councilmember Price, Superman Austin. The only concern I have is that we all know, and it's been said many times, that being homeless is not a crime.
Speaker 4: So we know that. However, we do have challenges when we have people hanging out on the beach and they're performing some illegal activities that we need to be aware of. And obviously with the results of some of those is that we have syringes and the bear pinata area that is left at the beach.
Speaker 4: And I certainly support the the efforts to clean that up and try to get better equipment to be able to separate the sand from from those items. But my my my approach on this and when I read it was I did see it as well as a enforcement type of issue.
Speaker 4: And I hope that when as you look at this and I spoke with the city manager about this previously, is that when you look at this, I'm hoping that we can determine that, you know, we ensure that there aren't going to be ordinances or any other kinds of of legal remedies that are going to limit people from
Speaker 4: accessing the beach, because the beach is for everybody. As many of you know, I served in the California Coastal Commission and access is is a big issue to access 24 seven and I certainly would not want to see ordinances being brought forward that would limit that type of access to the beaches, whether you're homeless or not.
Speaker 4: It's for everybody to enjoy and to basically be able to to have a day at the beach, whether it's during the day or in the evening, than they or specifically we would like. The conversation that I heard right now is all taking place about, you know, during during day business hours or during the day.
Speaker 4: But we know that people are hanging out at the beach at night. We know that. And so to have some of these egregious activities take place during those times. But I think that the the solutions that we need to look at are more towards response, you know, the heart team and and perhaps a public safety get out
Speaker 4: there and and have people move on if they're especially if they're involved in in any kind of egregious activities or activities that are going to get them arrested. But again, I want to make sure that if we are going to be looking at this and we're going to be looking at it from the perspective of a law
Speaker 4: enforcement perspective or a thinking of other kind of enforcement perspective that we don't have a ordinances or regulations passed that are going to be limiting to people having access to the beach and. That would be my only concern at this point.
Speaker 4: So I will be looking at that when the report comes back. And I certainly hope that we can work those issues out there. And we haven't had really an opportunity to discuss what types of remedies we would be looking at in terms of of any ordinances or suggestions, for instance, that will be coming forward before the city
Speaker 4: council.
Speaker 1: Okay. Thank you, then, Councilwoman Price.
Speaker 9: Thank you, and I appreciate my colleagues sharing their concerns. We did reach out to our offices other than than those who signed on to get input. And so I do appreciate the comments that we're hearing today. I will say absolutely.
Speaker 9: Councilwoman Member Pearce is correct. This item is about enforcement. It's also about enforcement in order for us to make sure that our beaches are maintained. The problem that we have is we have I don't know that we need new laws.
Speaker 9: We just we need to be enforcing the laws that we currently have. And we need to make sure that we minimize encampments and frankly, dumped property on beaches during the the last clean up on the beach. Public works literally removed a ton of trash from the beach.
Speaker 9: And that doesn't I'm not talking about wrappers and things that people littered. I'm talking about evidence of encampments that people have left behind the beaches. It is absolutely not illegal to be homeless. And this council has invested and will continue to invest as much money and resources as we can into outreach, education, services, anything that we can
Speaker 9: do to try to encourage people to take advantage of the many services that we have available in the city, and to procure more opportunities for services in the city, such as detox centers and housing facilities. That's absolutely a commitment that we have and will continue to make.
Speaker 9: But at the end of the day, you can't force people into services and you can't force people to accept services. So we have to enforce the laws that are already on the books that protect our residents. You know, I heard Councilmember Pearce say this twice as I want to go on record and fill in the blank with
Speaker 9: what she may have said. Well, I want to go on record as saying I'm going to do everything possible in my power to make sure that another junior guard kid doesn't strap on a syringe or that another member of the public doesn't step on a syringe.
Speaker 9: And if that means cleaning up dumped items and encouraging people to follow the rules that are already in place for the city, then I think that's what we should be doing. I do believe that our police department should be engaged actively in outreach, and they are.
Speaker 9: And I want to commend the chief and his command staff, because with very limited.
Speaker 6: Tools at their disposal.
Speaker 9: Because of recent changes in the law, they have been able to make some serious impact in the individual lives of people. I've had the privilege to go on ride alongs on multiple occasions with our quality of life team, and I can tell you they make a difference.
Speaker 9: That's that's what we should be investing in. But that doesn't mean that we ignore encampments that pop up here and there in violation of our existing local ordinances. If we're not going to enforce them, then maybe we should talk about removing them.
Speaker 9: But as long as they're on the books and as long as these laws are on the books, it's my belief that the police department should be enforcing them in order to preserve quality of life for our residents. If we don't think those laws should be on the books, then we should really have a conversation about that.
Speaker 9: But the beaches are as. As Councilman Saranga mentioned, we want to have access to the beaches. We want to have safe access to the beaches. We want to make the beaches a safe place for everyone to enjoy. I mean, he he spends a lot of his time outside of council working towards that mission.
Speaker 9: And so we want to make sure that we're doing what we can to make our beaches a place where everyone feels safe and well, where we're moving a ton of trash, much of it being from discarded property, from encampments.
Speaker 9: I think we need to think long term about the the focus of our cleanup efforts and making sure that we take it a step further. And and, you know, frankly, it's not just beaches. The item today is just beaches, but this conversation could be had about parks as well.
Speaker 9: It's a slippery slope when we start to turn a blind eye to encampments, because although we have policy considerations in mind here as a council in terms of what we're doing long term to address a very complex issue, the residents are looking outside their window and they're experiencing things when they're walking their children to school and they
Speaker 9: have expectations for what the government will and will not follow up on. And if we're going to have the laws on the books, we should be willing to enforce them. So thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Mongo.
Speaker 6: I just want to add a small tidbit of information that I think that we're also very aware of is that sometimes the population that is most impacted by the encampment are those who have lived in encampments. And we've seen this through the Department of Public Health, clean cleanup, unrelated to the spread of Mersa, the spread of other
Speaker 6: things. And so and while it can be uncomfortable, we also want to take into consideration that oftentimes people who are down on their luck have the least amount of medical coverage and the least ability to protect themselves from certain types of.
Speaker 6: Different public health disasters that come about from encampments and or hoarding and or the different things that can happen when people are at different mental states or different times in their life. So I'm very supportive of the item and thank you for your work on this.
Speaker 6: But I do agree that it's not just about beaches, it's about beaches and parks and and even the flood control channels on our sidewalks and our communities and our alleys. So it's an all encompassing program. And thank you to Pete and the Hart team for all that you do.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Editor Public comment on this item. Seeing None members please go ahead and cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 1: Thank you. We have one more item before we we have our hearing. We're going to go ahead and do the item 26, please.

Speaker 1: And so I see that. So if there's anyone here that's not here for those two items, you're welcome to take a break and be back later on because we'll be taking those these two items next. The next item is our Metro presentation.
Speaker 1: And if I can, please have the clerk read that item.
Speaker 0: Communication from Mayor Garcia recommendation to receive and file a report from L.A. County Metro on the status of various projects that impact Long Beach.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Let me before I have Mr. Wiggins start that presentation, let me just add that what we have in front of us today, and this is an important presentation for the whole council because we know that L.A. Metro affects and has an impact on on Long Beach every single day.
Speaker 1: I have the honor of serving as the as a metro director to represent many of the cities in southeast L.A. County, including Long Beach. And the presentation we're going to have in front of us today is going to go over a variety of initiatives as they relate to Long Beach.
Speaker 1: And so inclusive of that will be our new policing contract that has been in place now for maybe six or seven months. It'll be talk about the blue line and its impacts on on long beaches, including the closure and how that's going to and how we're going to work with that, as well as the 710 modernization plan
Speaker 1: . And so if there's any questions from council members, I know we received these from the community, this would be a good time to get those questions answered. And I do want to thank the Metro team that is here to make this present important presentation.
Speaker 1: I also want to, of course, thank both Sharon Weisman and Luke Clapp, who guide our metro work at the at the board level and here at the city. And so thanks to them as well. So with that, let me go ahead and turn this over to Mr. Wiggins.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and good evening and good evening to the members of the Council. My colleagues and I are honored to be here on behalf of our CEO, Mr. Phil Washington, to share what the Mayor just gave you.
Speaker 7: An overview, an update on a number of initiatives that we are working at Metro, that we work directly with the city of Long Beach. First of all, I'll provide you with an update on where we are with our policing contract and our partnership with Long Beach Police Department, followed by our project.
Speaker 7: We've called The New Blue, which is essentially a rehabilitation of the entire blue line and will then wrap up with the 710 freeway project. So with. With regard to. All right. With the law enforcement contract, our goal at Metro is to really transform that transit ridership experience across the entire system.
Speaker 7: And so we really want to get to the point where every single one of our employees, every single patron can ride our system anywhere in our system, 24, seven, anywhere without fear, 100% of the time. And for those of you who may be familiar with Metro, particularly the blue line, you know that we have work to do
Speaker 7: in that area. But that partnership with Long Beach Police Department is really getting us on this path of creating a very positive ridership experience for all of our patrons. And so every year we take a look at customer satisfaction, particularly thoughts around security and perceptions of security.
Speaker 7: And when you look at those numbers, you know, they're not that 90% of our folks on the bus are passengers feel safe, about 79% on the rail feel safe. But from the perspective of our CEO and our board of directors, well, what my instructions are is go get that 10% on the bus system and let's go get
Speaker 7: that 21% on the rail system. These these numbers actually need to be 100%. And so we are working very hard to improve that ridership experience and really address those issues that drive riders, complain about issues of harassment, code of conduct violations, crime on our system.
Speaker 7: And so our board of directors and our CEO have really made it a top priority at Metro. So if you take a look at before we implemented our multi-agency model, this is just an example, a representation of what the calls for service were on our rail system and our prior model.
Speaker 7: We worked with one particular agency that really was just our system is too big. We're looking at 1400 square miles, so it's very difficult for one agency to cover our entire system. So that gives you an example of about 80 or so calls on average per day that come in on our rail system.
Speaker 7: And then you notice that they're highly concentrated in Central Los Angeles and then in Long Beach, in particular, on our blue line. And so in our prior model, we did not have a direct working relationship with Long Beach PD.
Speaker 7: But when you take a look at the demand for service, the calls for service. It made perfect sense to reach out to Long Beach Police Department to partner with us on that effort. And so that partnership is underway.
Speaker 7: Chief Looney and I have been at this for a couple of years now, well, a year before we even entered into a contractual agreement. And I'm happy to report that we're making very, very good progress. And so now we have a multi-agency model.
Speaker 7: We have partnerships with the sheriff's department, Long Beach P.D. and, of course, LAPD, LAPD patrolling the city, the sheriff everywhere else outside the city, on the bus and rail system. And, of course, Long Beach PD on our blue line.
Speaker 7: And then our own Metro Security employees, we actually added a total of 77 to do nothing but check fare. So we brought that team from about 109 to about 180 some odd individuals. And in our security department that are conducting critical infrastructure protection and, of course, checking fare on our system.
Speaker 7: And all of those components work well together. So the rule is very, very clear. We've actually made it very clear what lanes we want law enforcement in. Our law enforcement partners are really there to address crime and disorder and reduce our system's vulnerability to terrorism.
Speaker 7: The prior model had officers checking fare as well, which was a bit problematic for a number of reasons that I'm more than happy to explain are we have our private security team who guards our facilities and some of our stations, and we have our internal metro security team that's responsible for fare compliance, revenue protection and critical infrastructure
Speaker 7: protection. And all of that really comes together to improve the overall environment. So our board of directors passed a multiagency model in February of 2017, and we implemented that model in July of 2017. So we now have a full year underneath our belt.
Speaker 7: And so specific to Long Beach, the Long Beach team patrols all of our rail infrastructure, essentially eight stations in the city of Long Beach. The riding trains are patrolling stations and they're responding to crimes in progress. One of the challenges we have before we move to this new multi-agency model as our emergency response times.
Speaker 7: We're actually getting into the neighborhood about 14 minutes for an emergency response. And you can imagine that's not acceptable if you're on the receiving end of that. And so our partnership with Long Beach and LAPD and now the sheriff, we actually have that emergency response time down to under 5 minutes.
Speaker 7: And for Long Beach, it's actually about three and a half minutes on average. And so that's exceptional response time for emergencies that occur on our system. I heard your earlier discussion about addressing homelessness. That, of course, is a significant challenge for Metro as well.
Speaker 7: And so we have as Metro as a whole, we have a number of outreach programs, our law enforcement teams through LAPD, they have hope teams, the sheriff's department have mental health evaluation teams, are met teams and the Long Beach PD.
Speaker 7: This year we're actually adding two quality of life officers to actually help us conduct outreach at our downtown. It's really where the demand is. Downtown, Long Beach Station and of course, across the line. And so those officers right now, Chief Looney and I are wrapping up the.
Speaker 7: Session about how we're going to bring them on and how we're going to equip and staff those officers. But they'll be on board here pretty soon. And they're also adding one additional detective to help, actually, with the increased investigative need.
Speaker 7: The officers are doing an exceptional job on our system. I'll show you later that we've had a very positive impact on crime. And so Long Beach PD requested and we were approved an additional position to help with that additional detective caseload.
Speaker 1: And Mr. Wilkins, before we move on to this next slide. So I just want to add, just for for the public and some of the folks that as well as we're moving forward on this. So I think it's important to note that, you know, the the single agency model was, I think, around since the inception of of
Speaker 1: Metro and truly has been kind of the main system that we function public safety on the system on. And so to go to the multi-agency model was a, a significant change. And I know that that's something that was a has been a priority of Long Beach I think for for many years was to get to a multi-agency
Speaker 1: system. Obviously, I was happy to be on the on the board. So we were able to do that work and work with you and partner with our police department. But it's something that Long Beach has been advocating for, for for a long time.
Speaker 1: And so I think we obviously have a great relationship with our partners at the sheriff's department. But to have I think, Long Beach Long Beach police officers able to patrol the system within Long Beach has been a very positive development.
Speaker 1: And I think we're very grateful to Metro for. And the chief is for working with us on that on that transition. And I know that it wasn't an easy transition or I know it also wasn't easy to get to.
Speaker 1: And so I just want to as we continue that conversation, I just want to thank you for that.
Speaker 7: Certainly. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I tell you, it's really been a good partnership for Metro as well. I think the results were exceptionally pleased with the results of all of our partners, in particular Long Beach PD. Going back to this this concept of outreach.
Speaker 7: And with regard to the homeless population, our board and our CEOs really allowed us to really engage in what we call a full court press on homeless outreach. And so we've added we had a pilot project that we ran for a year that essentially took thethree teams at these multidisciplinary outreach teams.
Speaker 7: And we piloted that program downtown to teams working on our red line. And the results were significant. Basically over 4000 contacts. And of that, they're actually helping about 25% of those folks actually find some form of temporary or permanent housing.
Speaker 7: So it made sense to expand that and our board directed us to do that. So we now have eight teams that will be working across our entire service area day and night on the bus side and on the rail side as well.
Speaker 7: And they'll be working in concert with our law enforcement officers, in particular the two additional quality of life officers that we're adding here in Long Beach. So with regard to the entire system, we've seen an immediate positive drop in one violent crime, and that's a decrease by 30%.
Speaker 7: And that's just the first the first fiscal year from July to June, July 2017 to June of 2018. So very significant. And really, the only difference is we actually have that felt presence on the system. We have officers riding trains, riding busses, patrolling stations.
Speaker 7: And that's really helping us to have a positive impact on crime. Specific to Long Beach, the numbers get even better. Your PD has done an outstanding job. Your part one crimes are down by half in this first year and you're part two.
Speaker 7: Crimes are down by 80%. And so we really applaud the efforts that Long Beach PD has engaged in in our system. They've been very consistent with maintaining that presence on the system, and that really is the most effective deterrent to crime.
Speaker 7: And then when crime does occur, we're very pleased with the response. And so I look forward to our continued partnership with Chief.
Speaker 1: And I want to add just to that number, if we can take that slide back, because I think it's important. I think there's obviously the perception of of crime on on Metro is something that we deal with all the time.
Speaker 1: We know that. But it's important for the community to know that, that when you look at the part one and part two crimes and the significance of the of the decrease, that's those are significant numbers that are unequivocally crime is going down on the blue line.
Speaker 1: We know that we're nowhere near where we want to be, but I think those are significant. So I want to thank you and your team, but especially our Long Beach Police Department and our new transit unit that works on our metro unit.
Speaker 1: I'm not sure what we call it exactly, but I want to thank them and all the members that work on that as we move forward.
Speaker 7: So great. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And the first year was really about taking control of some of the more serious crime on the system. And now that we're beginning to see numbers that are in the neighborhood of what would be considered average across the country, we're going to spend more time focusing on code of conduct issues then
Speaker 7: . Being loud music, things of that nature. So we're going to continue to make progress and we're pleased about the about the partnership. And so next, we're going to talk about the new blue. And my colleague, Mr. Krupp, will take over from here and then will, if you would, hold your questions till the very end of the presentation
Speaker 7: . We'll be more than happy to answer.
Speaker 1: Great. Thank you.
Speaker 5: Good evening and thank you, Councilman Vincent, Mayor of the Anthony Club. I am the director of Community Construction Relations for Metro. I'm excited to talk about a new project that's coming to us next year. We're calling it the new blues, as Alex mentioned, and it represents a really big milestone for the blue line in service to Long
Speaker 5: Beach as well as to downtown Los Angeles. Before going to the new blue itself, one article talk a little bit about what we've been doing over the last several years to improve the passenger experience on the blue line and to improve the operations there itself.
Speaker 5: Over the last several years we've actually done station refurbishment refurbishments. We've added new canopies. This includes a second canopy. When there's only one canopy at some of the stations we have repainted all of the stations, added new LED lighting to many of the stations.
Speaker 5: We actually did an upgrade to the landscaping, switch to a drip irrigation system and added some drought tolerant plants. In addition, we've added pedestrian and swing gates at 27 intersections, new concrete walkways and increased accessibility for those with mobility challenges.
Speaker 5: In addition, we've actually replaced all of the power stations along the entire 22 mile long line, and we've actually overhauled and are in the process of overhauling and replacing 46 new trains and 38 overhauled trains. And this includes the retirement of the existing fleet.
Speaker 5: So that leads me to to the actual new blue improvement project itself. What is it? It is a $350 million project that looks at the entire blue line. Its goals are to enhance the safety, increase reliability and operations, and improve the customer experience from both a visual and esthetic perspective as well.
Speaker 5: Right now, our schedule is looking at starting in January of 2019, it'll take approximately eight months. And in the process of actually shutting down the blue line, we're going to be providing three levels of replacement bus service. One of those levels of service is something that's completely new to the metro system and I think will be extremely
Speaker 5: beneficial to residents. Commuters down in Long Beach.
Speaker 1: You just add one thing to that, because I just want to make sure we're consistent with some of the other numbers that we've been talking about. Go back one slide. I think you speak you're speaking specifically here to the to the 350 of these improvements.
Speaker 1: But the total blue line project itself is about $1,000,000,000. If I look.
Speaker 5: Roughly if if you add all of the improvements over the last ten years, it's roughly a billion and what.
Speaker 1: We're going to. So the massive project itself is about 10 billion. About a billion. I'm sorry. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Let's keep going.
Speaker 5: So our schedules looking at starting in January of 2019 with the shutdown of the southern portion of the blue line. This includes the closure of the blue line from Willowbrook, Rosa Parks Station, all the way to downtown Long Beach.
Speaker 5: The Willowbrook Rosa Parks Station will be closed during that entire time period. We've actually started construction at that station to basically rebuild it and to create a.
Speaker 4: Transit hub at that location.
Speaker 5: During the shutdown, however, the Green Line will remain in operation and commuters will still be able to transfer from the Green Line to the replacement bus service that we're providing. The second half of the project involves a shutdown of the northern portion of the alignment, and this is from Willowbrook, Rosa Parks Station north, all the way to
Speaker 5: Seventh Street and Metro Center. It also includes a 45 day closure of the Metro Expo Line so that we can do some work on both the excellent and the blue line, particularly the two stations that are closest to downtown Los Angeles.
Speaker 5: Specifically, we're looking at five different areas. The first is traffic control improvements and train ticketing system. This is a little bit wonkish. It's a little bit behind the scenes and and it's a bit more technical. The track improvements themselves are a bit more physical.
Speaker 5: We'll see those more visually. We're also doing overhead power improvements, which is the the catalytic system that actually powers the train and then the Willowbrook, Rosa Park stations. Again, it's a complete rebuild of that particular station. And then lastly, we have stationary improvements that I think will be most visible to our customers that actually take the blue
Speaker 5: line on.
Speaker 2: A daily basis.
Speaker 5: The train control improvements include construction of four additional crossover tracks and switches to reduce service interruptions. This allows us to do a better job at operating the blue line with one track operation. It will minimize the delays if there's an incident, either a train incident or security incident.
Speaker 5: There's things along those lines. It'll minimize those delays for for for travelers so that they won't necessarily be backed up as much. We'll upgrade the existing train control systems. This will bring it up to the most modern standards.
Speaker 5: What you see on all of our other rail lines, we've also got track improvements, which includes the inspection and replacement of tracks both in downtown Long Beach as well as along the entire alignment. We're doing some special track work at Seventh Street Metro Center in the Expo Junction to minimize some of the wear there and improve the
Speaker 5: operations there. And then lastly, and this is actually a really critical piece is some pretty high end work to the regional connector. As you know, the regional connector is a major project that's underway right now in downtown Los Angeles.
Speaker 5: We are adding three new stations, but more importantly, we're actually connecting the metro blue line with the Metro Explorer and the Metro Gold Line. And this will allow you to have a one seat ride that goes from downtown Long Beach all the way out to Azouz, as well as from East Los Angeles.
Speaker 5: All the way to Santa monica. Last year we had the overhead power improvements, which is the upgrade or replacement of the power system for the entire 22 mile long line. So I mentioned the three levels of bus service that we're providing during the shutdown.
Speaker 5: The first level of service is a local service, and that's what it looks like. This will hit all of the all of the stations that are closed and connect to the the blue line as it continues to operate.
Speaker 5: The second level is a select service which had some of the stations and connects again to the blue line that's continuing to operate. And the last civil service is the Express Shuttle Service, which is the Express service that to go from downtown Long Beach directly into downtown Los Angeles.
Speaker 5: And this is a new service.
Speaker 2: That we've not provided in the past. This is a.
Speaker 5: Map that talks a little bit more detail and shows you what those level of services mean for each of the different stations. Again, this is the first phase going from January through May of 2019. This is when the southern portion of the alignment is shut down.
Speaker 5: Then moving to the second phase, when the northern portion of the alignment is shut down from May through September of 2019. And then lastly, during the 45 day closure of the actual air service, the two stations that will be closed, which includes the Seventh Street, Metrocentre and the Pico station, will be serviced by all three levels of
Speaker 5: the replacement bus service. In addition, we have a shuttle that will be just providing service from the closed expo I'm sorry, from the Expo Line to those closed stations. Lastly, our communications plan, as you as you know, we are just now rolling out our public communications.
Speaker 5: Right now we're starting with a very grass tops approach to it. As we move closer and closer towards December, when we start to get closer to the actual closure itself. We'll move towards more direct customer communication. This includes pop ups at each of the stations.
Speaker 5: It includes a direct mail piece that'll go to almost all of the residents and addresses along the entire alignment. And we'll also be doing a media campaign that will get the word out as well. I think all of you should have in your packets a copy of the fact sheet based on the bill.
Speaker 5: And we also have copies of the fact sheet available at the entrance.
Speaker 3: To the to the to the meeting.
Speaker 5: To the council chambers. And then we also have our new new blue website, which is that metro dot.
Speaker 4: Net backslash, new blue, where you can find out all the information that I just present.
Speaker 3: Okay.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you. We'll keep going and then we'll we'll do our questions at the at the end.
Speaker 8: Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Council Members. Thank you for for the opportunity to do this this presentation. My name is Vanessa Chavez. I'm with L.A. Metro's Highway Program. And today I'm going to go over an update on the 710 quarter project, specifically recapping the actions that our board took this past February, describing the alternative that was selected by
Speaker 8: the board and then going over the timeline and next steps for the project. So upon closing the public circulation of the environmental document last August, the board in February with, based on the project team's recommendation, adopted alternative IVC as the preferred alternative for the 710 project.
Speaker 8: Alternative five C would modernize the freeway 19 miles from Long Beach all the way to East Los Angeles, enhancing safety, improving capacity by adding a lane in this direction to the freeway, improving air quality through a submission truck deployment program that I'll explain in more detail in a little bit.
Speaker 8: And then adding other complementary programs that are, I believe, unlike any other freeway project, the total cost of the project is around $6 billion, which even including Measure R and Measure M, we don't quite have all that amount, at least for the for the first ten, 20 years.
Speaker 8: But we do have about $1.3 billion in funding with Measure R and Measure M So we are planning to do some improvements, and I'll get into that here in a second. So upon approving the preferred alternative, our board also passed a couple of different motions.
Speaker 8: This first one, and I'm going to I'm just going to summarize them, go into a lot of detail, but just for for summary purposes. Motion 5.1, led by Supervisor Hahn, required us to focus on zero emission trucks as a as a policy.
Speaker 8: So for for the for the clean truck program that we're proposing, she wanted to make sure that it was a phased in zero emission truck deployment program, that we increased the funding from 100 million to 200 million, the funding target for that program that we pursue incentives to accelerate the implementation of zero emission technology.
Speaker 8: And then we develop a policy recommendation for future consideration of a dedicated lane exclusively for zero emission trucks. There was another motion passed by or spearheaded by Supervisor Solis and recognizing again that we don't have $6 billion for the project, they asked us to go back and develop what we're calling an early action program, which would emphasize
Speaker 8: projects or prioritize projects that deliver the greatest benefits and improve safety, mobility and, of course, air quality. But primarily and here's the focus of this is minimizing property impacts, minimize or reduce completely, eliminate property impacts, and to develop and enforce a local targeted hiring plan.
Speaker 8: It also asked us to go back and reevaluate the the mainline freeway improvements after we're done with this this early action program. And with that, we would do with the money we actually have within measure after measure. M The board motion also looks at future planning considerations, for example, for us to develop multiple scenarios for a comprehensive
Speaker 8: plan to reduce traffic congestion in the corridor, to develop strategies, strategies to reduce vehicle demand on the demand side, alongside the physical roadway improvements, and to evaluate the feasibility of high frequency bus service as well. So moving forward, we have a few parallel efforts.
Speaker 8: The first one is finalizing the final the final year, even though that sounds redundant. But we've got to finalize the final. We have a timeline, pretty aggressive timeline of December 2018, the end of the year to do that.
Speaker 8: That would include include the response to comments. It would include, of course, the final document, environmental document. It would include the record of decision in the notice of the termination, everything that we need to actually have a project.
Speaker 8: In the meantime, we're also looking at recommendations of what early investments we could do in the freeway. Essentially with the money we have, where where do we invested? What is the where do we get the best bang for the buck that we plan to start towards the end of the year and probably take us through the spring
Speaker 8: of next year? So we knew to recommend projects and of course do some funding prioritization for those projects. And lastly, we have a number of continuous efforts that were were delineated in the motions I just summarized and also an older motion we had from 2015.
Speaker 8: And these things are planning efforts or policy considerations that we need to continue working on. This graphic here just just illustrates the fact that even though we don't have $6 billion, the totality of the project includes not just freeway improvements, but also improvements to arterial streets, active transportation projects and these complementary programs.
Speaker 8: Well, the Early Action Program or this early initial investment program will have a piece of each one of these. It's essentially a piece of the larger pie that we're going to try to to to to begin building. So this is just to to to to reiterate that point.
Speaker 8: In terms of investment on the freeway side, I'm highlighting here in this map, this is this is the freeway. Think of it on its back. I guess the Northeast is pointing to your right. The first half of the freeway is on the top.
Speaker 8: Part of the map is Long Beach, all the way to the 91. And then the one, two, five to the 60 is on the bottom part of the of the map. And as you can see, there are a number of interchanges.
Speaker 8: You see those little blue bubbles there. Those are the interchanges that we could definitely improve. And there's a number of them in Long Beach. There are also biking fed crossings over the L.A. River that are proposed new bike and PED crossings that we could improve as well or create as well on the arterial side.
Speaker 8: Again, there's a number of there's upwards of 77 intersections along the quarter that we identified as deficient or that need need improvements. A lot of them are in Long Beach as they're circling that or in that box. This also includes, of course, what we would do to corridors like traffic calming measures, intersection improvements, not just intersections, but
Speaker 8: corridors as well. And of course, bike and pet projects that that we can do along along the arterial improvements as well. There is a community health benefit program that, again, I don't think there's any other freeway project that I'm aware of that has this this thing.
Speaker 8: It's similar to what the ports have done over the years in terms of grants. So it's basically a grant program that we will look to partner with, with health department, health departments or other agencies to deliver. And it would provide funding for things like HEPA filters or clean fuel busses and things of that nature.
Speaker 8: We also have a sewer emission truck deployment program, as I mentioned earlier. And again, we will be looking to partner with most likely the HMD to deliver this, this, this program. And again, similar to what the ports have done over the past years, providing subsidies to turn over the fleet of trucks, in this case, specifically the fleet
Speaker 8: that drives on the 710. In terms of language, specifically in the candidate for investments, we have at least seven local interchanges. The Shoemaker Bridge itself, of course, is also a candidate for investment there. We have upwards of 23 arterial street intersections that are candidates for investment and are in arterial corridors like like Artesia Boulevard, like Willow Lake
Speaker 8: PCH. We have three bike impaired crossings over the L.A. River. Obviously, the community health grants. And then we also have investments that we already started making starting about five or six years ago. For example, there's a small early action cycle program that is about to go to construction probably by early next year.
Speaker 8: And a lot of those animals are in Long Beach. We're also we're providing funding for the Atlantic Willow intersection. And, of course, some initial funding for the Shoemaker Bridge Project to do the environmental document, then final design. So we'll continue working with public works and other departments in the city to make sure that, of course, the city's
Speaker 8: comments are addressed in the final year and then moving forward, looking forward to prioritizing funding and hopefully bringing some more investments to the city. And we have a couple more quick slides. There is a 710 parallel effort. This is called the Livability Initiative.
Speaker 8: We found we applied for a grant through Caltrans to look at complete streets and active transportation improvements in parallel to the 710. Some of the things that the freeway project couldn't really do, Caltrans couldn't really do. So we identified with working with city staff a number of quarters.
Speaker 8: You can see there in the in the slide. PCH Atlantic the llamo that our candidates for complete streets the city is pretty much already doing this as part of their mobility element. But the effort here is to provide provide resources and information to apply for for the city to be able to apply for grant funding to get
Speaker 8: these done. So we've been working with the city for the past year. In doing this, we had a number of outreach meetings, as you can see in the picture here that we're pretty successful in. We look forward to wrapping that up and providing the city with the information to apply for the grants and hopefully get some of
Speaker 8: these constructed. And with that, I'll close and all of us are here for answering questions.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Let me let me I think I think there's one more slide to maybe I'm looking at the wrong presentation. Is there one more slide?
Speaker 5: Yeah, I think we've got one more.
Speaker 1: Maybe there isn't. And I think there's actually I should add one.
Speaker 5: Little bit, one more update that I have.
Speaker 7: Okay. I think Sharon's working on that, Mr. Mayor.
Speaker 1: Okay. No problem. Well, let me just add a few things to the presentation that we have some we have some questions. So I want to just a note, a few things. First, obviously, is you guys are doing are doing great work in all these projects.
Speaker 1: Some things to note for the public. I think it's really important, I think for us in Long Beach. I don't know that myself or the council or even staff have contemplated enough the huge challenge that the closure, the blue line is going to be for the city.
Speaker 1: And obviously, we were and we know it's coming and we're anticipating it, but we have not had this type of closure since it opened 25 years ago. And so while the outcome is going to be excellent and we're going to end up with a better system and good ridership and hopefully all the things that we want that
Speaker 1: that that shutdown is going to be very significant for thousands and thousands of people that use the blue line every single day to get to work, to go to downtown Los Angeles, to connect and go to the airport.
Speaker 1: And so I know that we're going to do everything that we can to ensure that that is the least impactful as possible for the folks here in Long Beach. And we know from data that we have people from all across the city that use the blue light system to get particularly folks who are going into downtown Los
Speaker 1: Angeles. And so they're parking at the Willow or the Wardlow station, and there's going to be a lot of disruption around that. So I do want to note one of the kind of exciting developments out of this is that Metro is creating this express system so that during the shutdown, we will be piloting a one stop downtown
Speaker 1: Long Beach to downtown L.A., shuttle or bus. And and that's something I know that we are interested in keeping once we reopen the blue lines. I've been clear about that, Mr. Washington, and I know other board members have as well.
Speaker 1: So we're excited about about that. I want to also just add as part of your presentation that. The the modernization of the 710 provides an enormous amount of resources to Long Beach for projects. That has nothing to do with the footprint of the actual highway or the freeway.
Speaker 1: And so I want to make sure the council is aware that over the next couple of years, the amount of resources available to arterial streets, the reconstruction of all of the on ramp and off ramps up and down the 710, the ability for streets and larger highways and connecting streets and neighborhoods to benefit from the essentially the
Speaker 1: investments that are going to be made to mitigate the challenges around the 710 are pretty important. And so I know that particularly for the council members that are adjacent to those projects, I know that they want to be involved and learn more about the early action projects.
Speaker 1: Also to note is that the board was pretty clear that we want the early action projects to begin in the hopefully complete regardless of that next phase, which would be looking at modernization of the actual freeway itself. And those early action projects I know where that we're looking at include the Shoemaker Bridge.
Speaker 1: They include all of the arterials. They include possible residential streets and alleyways and a bunch of a bunch of infrastructure improvements up and down the corridor. And so I just wanted to note that. And then the last thing I'll note is actually the slide that we have up here.
Speaker 1: But I know you want to I'll comment on it and we'll just this this car right here, this is a really special I think this car is the very first car in the history of the metro system. And when the metro system opened up, it was connecting downtown Long Beach to downtown Los Angeles.
Speaker 1: And it was the blue line, of course. This car is called Car 100, and it's actually called the Long Beach Car 100. It was named after the city of Long Beach. And and this car actually rode then Supervisor Hahn and then very young Janice Hahn on the first ride from downtown L.A. to down to downtown Long Beach
Speaker 1: . And this car was going to be actually sent to a scrapyard very recently. But we interceded the city and Metro is donating this car back to the city of Long Beach. And this car, Will, has been repeated to its original colors.
Speaker 1: As you can see there, it's being restored to essentially what it was 25 years ago. And the car 100 is going to be returned to the city of Long Beach for, you know, for us to use as as we as we like, which we haven't figured out yet, but I'm sure will end up being used as maybe
Speaker 1: a restaurant or a museum or both. And so we're looking at that. But the great thing about this is it's historical because, of course, this entire metro system we're talking about kind of started the rail system on this car.
Speaker 1: And the fact it's named after the city, I think is really special. And so we're we're excited to partner with Metro on this project and and many others. And so thank you to the staff. You guys are doing a great job.
Speaker 1: I have a series of questions and comments. So when I want to go ahead and go through those. Okay. And let me begin, Councilwoman Mongo.
Speaker 6: I just want to tell you, as a prior blue line rider and member of the community that really supports all that you do. I just want to thank you for the big leaps and bounds that you have done, but also as a representative of the East Side.
Speaker 6: A considerable number of my neighbors will not be driving all the way downtown to take the Express bus because they were the types of riders who used to just sit down wardlow and get on at the Wardlow station or depending on parking, hit the Willow Station.
Speaker 6: And so I know that there are capacity and budgetary and other things, but if there are any opportunities to expand a bus service or at least to do a survey that we could help you with, to find out interest, to find out if we could get enough riders to make it in that neutral.
Speaker 6: The number of van rides I'm hearing going up, we've already seen additional vans start flooding the city, neighborhood streets because people are clearly going to plan to carpool, which is great. But whatever we could do to help encourage the express ridership, our officers here to stand at the ready and help you.
Speaker 6: We have several community meetings that this is being discussed at starting later next month and so I'm sorry later is three in August already me on the summer went fest later this month. So these are important things and we look forward to your partnership.
Speaker 6: So thank you for all that you do. And I'm still looking forward to the sound wall promise 14 years ago that your team is the first to really step forward and help us guide that through on the 605 Freeway.
Speaker 6: The neighbors have been waiting a long time and they're very thankful to have the ear of Metro and the support that has taken so long. But they weren't vocal and now they are, and now they're engaged and we're very excited for all that work.
Speaker 6: So thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilmember. Now.
Speaker 5: Thank you very much.
Speaker 2: Great presentation. Thank you for that tonight. I just want to mention those crime numbers are incredibly impressive. So kudos to Chief Luna on that.
Speaker 5: I'll just follow up on.
Speaker 2: The sound wall. Great news. And the northeastern border of my fourth district is a four or five freeway. So right after we get that 605 for our project and I'll handle your list, our wish list tonight. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Austin.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 7: And I really appreciate the presentation. I got to say that much of what has been presented, I've been aware of through other regional boards as well, and I'm no stranger to most of the representatives here from Metro. And so welcome to Long Beach and thank you for the great work that you all do to keep us moving
Speaker 7: throughout L.A. County. I'm especially pleased to see the work being done on safety and security. So, Mr. Wiggins, thank you for your presentation. And and particularly along the blue line, we hear a lot about perceptions and we need to do more to to change those perceptions with the blue line, the work on I-70 and oversight.
Speaker 7: I mean, the Corridor Project Metro has been great to work with and great partner with the city and I'm looking forward to hopefully fast tracking that because it's a vital project for the city of Long Beach. I think the fact that so many representatives are here from from Metro giving this type of presentation speaks to what we've
Speaker 7: talked about a few years ago as a priority. And that was making sure that Long Beach had a seat at the table at the MTA board. And so obviously, our mayor is there as a voice for our city.
Speaker 7: And it certainly, I think, has improved the relationship and responsiveness from Metro to the city and vice versa. And so I'm glad to see just this this relationship moving forward and the attention given to to the city on these important projects.
Speaker 7: Thank you. And Julia Brown, you a pleasure to work with. All right.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Vice Mayor Andrews.
Speaker 8: Yes, fine. Thank you very much. First of all, I congratulate every one of you for the job that you're doing and will continue to do. I just sometimes think about the big thing that really kind of came to my eyes was the percentage I would with crime.
Speaker 8: You know, you look at 80%, you know, you guys are really going to run the car dealership out of business because I know I would stay on the blue line if it's that safe. Congratulations, every one of you guys.
Speaker 8: Great job, you and Commander Luna. Chief Luna and your group. You guys got a safe here in Long Beach? I'll stay on the blue line. I'm giving my car away. Thank you. Giving and giving it away. It's a serious car.
Speaker 3: Okay.
Speaker 1: Thank you. And absolutely true. I think the blue line is the changes are significant. So thank you for that, Councilmember Pearce.
Speaker 6: Great. Thank you so very much for your presentation. I know I wasn't here the whole time, but I was multitasking for another project for tonight, so apologies for that. I did get a chance to see some of the presentation.
Speaker 6: And I know as someone who was a blue line writer for many years, it is a place I always felt safe on. And the challenges are perception. And so I'm really excited that we're doing this overhaul. My district is the port in downtown over to the east side.
Speaker 6: And so really when we talk about putting 3000 new residential units in downtown and trying to get people out of their cars, Metro is a key player in that conversation. And so I'm really happy that Long Beach has a seat at the table and that you guys are working with us and to see all the great improvements
Speaker 6: from the 710 to this option as well. I do want to echo Councilmember Mungo's comment about not just having a downtown Long Beach. I mean, you guys know because you've been through the process. But for me to get from downtown just out of Long Beach takes use to take 30 minutes.
Speaker 6: And so as we are talking about additional stops, that might be an option. I know that a lot of families and people that work in downtown L.A. would appreciate that if that's an option. And then I love the idea of bringing the Long Beach car back.
Speaker 6: If you guys remember, whenever we phased out our fire boats, I wanted to keep them and do a museum with them. I was a little too late before they went to auction, so I really love the idea of capturing some of Long Beach's history and in highlighting how transit can be key to cleaning our energy and saving
Speaker 6: the memory of of the great things that happened along transit. So I look forward to my staff working with you guys, look forward to making sure that our residents in the downtown and in the second District really are aware of these changes and partnering in that and that outreach and education.
Speaker 6: So thank you guys for all the hard work you do.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilmember Ringa.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Marion. I want to compliment you on your work with the Metro. I think it's an important part of the work that is being done with our corridor issues and as well as our container movement along the 710 freeway.
Speaker 4: And communication is big and I'm glad that you have an outreach plan obviously in place, very pleased with what's going on with your other mobility issues there, with the bicycle paths and walking paths and and of course, the modernization of the A17, which is huge.
Speaker 4: The 710 goes right through my seventh District community as well as the blue line world question. People have been asking me about a retaining and retaining a soul that could be along the stretch between well, right before right up right around the word low station going north there.
Speaker 4: It passes through a park and a couple of schools. And so the the blue line really makes a lot of noise, if you will, and a song, while I would be very beneficial along that community because there are two residential areas around that park, you know what I'm talking about?
Speaker 4: The surrealist park. Excuse me. Yeah. So I mean, I know Councilman Rossin is well aware of that project as well, but any updates on that or is there anything in the in the works? And as far as being able to mitigate some of that, some of the noise that comes out of the blue line in that area
Speaker 8: ? Yeah, I believe originally we had considered that in within the 710 program. But eventually I think we recognized that it was more, like you said, more of a blue line four or five issue. So I can go back and check.
Speaker 8: The last I heard we had look, we, we were going into preparing design for for a while. We were moving forward with designing the wall internally and Metro. So I'll go back and check the status of that and get back to you.
Speaker 8: Get back to this to the city.
Speaker 4: And I'll tell you the truth. The reason we're really concerned, because during the summer we have concerts at the park and you hear the blue light coming down all the time in the middle of a performance. So, I mean, it would be a very good benefit to the community if we could have a song Water that would
Speaker 4: mitigate that noise in regards to the A17 and the modernization and what's going on there. There's there was a lot of concerns raised this past year about homes being lost and the possibility of of getting homes moved and families displaced.
Speaker 4: Could you give us just a little bit of an update to where we're at with the actual modernization, the freeway along that stretch?
Speaker 8: Right. So as I mentioned in the presentation, the we need to get through the finally air first that that's what makes the project a project. Right. What we're going to do right after that is look at which parts of the freeway, which interchanges, as the mayor mentioned, we could build first.
Speaker 8: The good news is that the for the early action interchanges, the we don't really need as much or in some cases any any residential properties. The residential properties may. Only are needed for the the freeway, the freeway interchanges, the big ones, 91, 91, seven, ten, four or five, seven, ten.
Speaker 8: And we don't we're not planning to do those as part of the early action program. So I have some numbers here in front of me. I mean, I'm looking at it and we can probably get away with almost no residential property impacts with most of those early action projects.
Speaker 1: And I me add to that I think also they know that customer we were very involved you know chairing or I 17 committee of the council and that it's our goal obviously at the board that when we enter the when we get beyond the early action projects which will obviously this is a multiyear project.
Speaker 1: Well, we feel confident that there won't be those residential impacts. Once we get to that next phase, we can have a larger, broader conversation about what our resident initial impacts may be. But it's our goal at the board not to have any residential impacts.
Speaker 1: I mean, that that that's our our obviously our goal. And so those are conversations that will that will continue as we as we move forward. And so working with the community and the council, when we get to that point, is going to be very important.
Speaker 8: And in terms of next steps, we do need to prepare the board motion. We need to take those project recommendations for the early action projects back to the board, probably early next year. And so they get to see and evaluate what are those impacts and and hopefully, you know, the minimization of those impacts.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you for the update. And I'm looking forward to our continuing relationship to working with you as we move forward with this very important project with the city. And I want to echo my councilmembers comments regarding public safety.
Speaker 4: Great kudos to the police department. Kudos for that. The Mayor and the city in joining Mitchell in providing a better and expanded public safety service to the to the Riders of Loveridge. Thank you very much.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilmember Richardson.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I wanted to just chime in and first, thank you for coming down. Thank you for the quality presentation and just acknowledge and say that I'm a big fan of Mr. Washington. I think he has a very highly qualified, qualified and diverse staff.
Speaker 2: I think we we sort of lead most transit agencies in that regard. I want to also sort of shout out the tap car program. I think it's an amazing program for integration busses, trains, bikes, one system of run rate system.
Speaker 2: If there's a change one board, I think it makes sense that full integration I want to acknowledge I see a Kenneth McDonald, our Long Beach Transit executive director there. And I think we should continue to look at how we can better integrate our bike share in Long Beach with with Metro and Long Beach Transit to have one
Speaker 2: shared system. I also want to just raise up and I know many of you've heard me talk about this there. You know, 17 is a great project, but there's a number of massive projects in the region that all converge in one place.
Speaker 2: That's the intersection of the 710, the intersection of 91, the intersection of the L.A. River and Artesia Boulevard. They all have in common that they're all in some form of some stage of modernization that will impact one community.
Speaker 2: And that community is North Long Beach, the committee I represent. And so I've said it before, and I'll continue to say it. I think there needs to be a dedicated focus, a working group, a dedicated vision program, dedicated to figuring out how to rate the environmental justice wrongs of the past when the infrastructure was originally built.
Speaker 2: And I'd like to see more attention there from more than this group, all the agencies that are that are players in that conversation. But again, thank you for what you do and continue the good work.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman. And let me just I just close and then open it up to this public comment. Let me just close by again thanking the team. And I do want to mention and close by saying something that was mentioned by the councilmembers and it is Metro's goal to have a fully integrated system.
Speaker 1: So I think the vision that we're working on right now is how do you with one tap card or in the future an app or what have you, are you able to, you know, jump on a bike, share bike and then get on a Long Beach transit bus and then get on the blue line?
Speaker 1: And it should it be one card, one system. So everything is talking to each other. And and for those are may not be aware of. I think it's I learned a lot when I joined the board. Metro also operates, of course, the countywide bus system, but there are also 17 municipal operators within the countywide bus system.
Speaker 1: Lumbee Transit is one of the larger of these operators. But Long Beach Transit is working every day with Metro so that the metro system and the transit system is integrated into one master regional system. And so everything that we do at Long Beach Transit affects Metro and everything that Metro is doing on their bus system, many of
Speaker 1: which of the busses go into Long Beach, by the way, affect our system. So we're trying to get to a point where everything is more integrated and that we're trying to make it easier for for riders. And so the other big goal that's happening in the next couple of years is the focus is shifting as we're spending
Speaker 1: , you know, enormous amounts of money on the rail systems, which is great, that the a lot of interest is shifting also to the bus system. And we're trying to figure out how we modernize and save the bus system because we are as you know, the bus system is in massive need of of not just an upgrade, but
Speaker 1: just a we need to give it more attention so that young, younger people feel that the bus system is accessible. And right now, a lot of folks don't feel for those that use the bus system, they use it often.
Speaker 1: But for those that don't use the bus system, it's very difficult to get someone to actually get on the bus and ride the bus to get to another location. And so limited transit is engaged right now in a major review of where all of the bus stops are across the city.
Speaker 1: Where should they go in the future? What are the main stops, where they should be? And Metro is involved in the same exact effort and it's all trying to link up to create a new bus system that will be rolling out in the next couple of years.
Speaker 1: And so this will have a big impact on us in Long Beach. And so I think it's important for us to be very engaged on these issues and understand what's happening with with transit as we move as we move forward.
Speaker 1: So thank you all. We really appreciate your guys, you guys being here. And I saw you brought the whole team, so that's good. Thank you, guys. Thank you very much. Is there any any public comment on Metro? Please come forward.
Speaker 5: Very good. You click as the address. I was on that train.
Speaker 1: And the return trip when it opened up.
Speaker 5: My office used to be at seventh in metro at 700 south lower. While there were some very interesting plans that have been brought forward.
Speaker 1: That I think are very positive. There is one.
Speaker 5: Major issue that I think they're.
Speaker 1: Overlooking and I.
Speaker 5: Referenced before to all the members of the board at the Washington Street Station. Where currently the blue line goes down St Peter's St. There should be and I originally was calling it the Crow Line, which is a direct line over to Union Station.
Speaker 5: Couple of weeks ago, Homer Simpson pointed out to me that a better name for that would be lickety split. You could get to Union Station within 45 minutes and then connect on and be out the East Jesus and beyond.
Speaker 5: In fact, you could finish up your business. At the metro headquarters.
Speaker 1: And thumb your nose at your partner. That was your.
Speaker 5: Colleague that was coming in and stuck.
Speaker 3: In the tunnel.
Speaker 5: At seventh, the metro. And that's an inherently problem that will never, ever, ever, ever go away. So the answer is a straight what I refer to as the now the lickety split line.
Speaker 1: In addition to that.
Speaker 5: There is no need except in dire emergencies, to shut down the transit line to do the needed repairs. You restrict those to.
Speaker 1: 4 to.
Speaker 5: 5 hours at night.
Speaker 3: Starting maybe at 1230, 1234.
Speaker 5: And cease the work at maybe 415 in the morning period, except for dire emergencies. You do not need to shut.
Speaker 1: Down the lines, period.
Speaker 5: The repair and upgrading of line that has to be institutionalized.
Speaker 1: The repair and the upgrading of lines is going to be an ongoing basis period.
Speaker 2: In fact.
Speaker 5: So behind are, I think that we probably will face a bittersweet situation of not being able to handle the 2028 Olympics.
Speaker 1: That's the bitter end. The sweet end is if they get their act together. They had their act together.
Speaker 5: We should be able to have it planned for 2032, which would be very nice and sweet, because that would be the hundredth anniversary of the Olympic Games. It's the MTA has some leadership problems, notwithstanding a highly credible mayor there is in the city of Los Angeles, certainly one of the most qualified minds in the state and in
Speaker 5: this country. But the MTA has too many metal twits. They're holding it back, in my view.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much to the next speaker. Good evening, Michael Cauldwell First District. I just wanted the one thing I didn't see in any of the presentations. This is going to be very, very small.
Speaker 3: There is always an issue.
Speaker 1: With transfers between companies, between Long Beach Transit, between Okta.
Speaker 5: And.
Speaker 1: Metro. Can this be addressed quickly? Or possibly because sometimes when a writer like myself, I commute to be in a park every day when I go to work and I have to transfer to Orange County or if I want to take a few trips out, sometimes the companies do not sync up.
Speaker 1: I would say it's very, very small. I know other people have more important things, but if that can be addressed, I think this is going to be great for Metro. I mean, I enjoy Metro. And also let me congratulate you that I just now found out.
Speaker 5: That there's free wi fi that metro like.
Speaker 6: I'm like, whoa, what's this?
Speaker 3: Free Wi-Fi? Ruby. I can use my my devices on Metro. Great. So cool to.
Speaker 1: That. But like I say, with the transfer situation.
Speaker 10: Sometimes.
Speaker 1: Busses don't sync up. So if that can be addressed as well and fixed.
Speaker 5: People can get where they need to go better.
Speaker 1: Sometimes the drivers don't even see people, you know, if if it.
Speaker 5: Takes up a few minutes just for any driver on.
Speaker 1: Any transit system.
Speaker 5: To take a quick look around, make sure no one's coming.
Speaker 1: And then they can take off and continue. That would be great, but good job, Metro.
Speaker 5: You're doing a great job.
Speaker 1: Thanks. Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 5: Thank you very much, Andrew Carroll from the second District. I really love that presentation. I'm glad to see all the money that we're investing in our.
Speaker 2: Public transportation system. I think public transit is a.
Speaker 5: Really great institution for us and we should do all we can to support it. I think one of the issues that has been addressed lately, but I would encourage the city council and anyone in this room to address it further, would be the issue of perception versus reality.
Speaker 5: Because the blue line is actually a lot safer than is perceived to be and with all that has long reputation as being not very safe. But all sorts of studies.
Speaker 2: Show that it's.
Speaker 5: Actually safer to be on the Metro than it is to be in some of the surrounding communities that the Metro passes through. That's one. So when it comes to when people's perceptions are based on reality, you can invest lots of money in changing reality, but that won't change people's perceptions because people's perceptions aren't based in reality.
Speaker 5: Right. So I would like to see more money being spent on changing the perception of the blue line and also public transportation generally. And that's something all of us in this room can do. It doesn't have to wait for.
Speaker 5: I saw the phrase grass top funding. That's a new one.
Speaker 3: I don't know.
Speaker 5: As a metaphor, that doesn't really work, I'm sorry to say, but I appreciate what that's going for, which is that if we can get these institutions at the top level to do something about it, and I'm glad to see that we are, but we can also do a lot at the grassroots level.
Speaker 5: Everyone in this room, we have to ask ourselves, look in the mirror. When's the last time that you rode the bus? You know, when's the last time that you wrote The Blue Line? And you have to ask yourself that question.
Speaker 5: When's the last time you got on a bicycle? Right, and went to the bus stop and put your bike on the bus and then rode the bus to the line and wrote the blue line to work. And then it late at night came back home.
Speaker 5: All of us in this room can do a little more to give up our cars and get on the blue line and increase ridership. Los Angeles actually has one of the most extensive public transportation systems in the country and even around the world.
Speaker 5: It stacks up pretty well in America. And yet the perception of it is that it doesn't have that same accessibility. So there's a lot that we can do to change these perceptions. And it starts with letting people know that the blue line is safe.
Speaker 5: But ultimately it starts with all of us in this community using the blue line more, using the busses more, including our city council members who all have a good enough access to press and stuff that they could easily ride the bus to city council.
Speaker 5: Get some cameras on there. Talk about the new system and talk about how fun it is. Talk about safe it is. Take the bus home, you know, take it back, take it to council on Tuesday, take it back home.
Speaker 5: And that would be a great way. Get some press on it, encourage people to use the system. And then finally, to echo Councilwoman Mongo statements, which I totally agree with, which is that the bus lines running east to west are definitely something we really have to improve in order to access the blue line and then go north
Speaker 5: or south. So I think there's a lot of work we can do about that. But on that question, again, we have to ask ourselves in this room, what are we willing to give up in order to have more public transportation?
Speaker 5: Because space is at a premium in Southern California. And if we want to have more public transit, we might have to give up some highways, I mean, some lanes for cars. And that's not something a lot of people are prepared to do.
Speaker 5: But if we can make these sacrifices in the mirror, then I think we can do a lot to improve our blue line and transit. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. And I'll just add, Mr. Carroll, I think that one of the great things that Metro's working on is on the blue line when the shutdown happens, you know, which I think is obviously no one's looking forward to, but is a necessity when we reopen the system, there's going to be a major push to
Speaker 1: kind of hit refresh. And I think you're going to see it, by the way, the stations look, the landscaping, the the kind of computer systems that are going to be installed at the stations, the fact that all the trains will be new, that the technology will be modernized, and the marketing push and kind of kind of collective
Speaker 1: push to have that fresh start and let people know that, yes, this is a safe system and that we want folks to ride the blue line and we want transit to have all those connections, I think is going to be an opportunity for us, which is something that we should take advantage of as we hit, you know
Speaker 1: , the end of next year and we reopen the blue line. Yes.
Speaker 10: Hi, Karen Recién. I'm a resident of the First District and I haven't been able.
Speaker 6: To drive for about 15 years.
Speaker 10: So I take the bus almost on.
Speaker 9: A daily.
Speaker 6: Basis.
Speaker 10: I just want to commend the police department for their taking over the line. I mean, there's been a huge improvement on the nefarious activity around this train station since they've taken over the patrolling of the system. I also want to support Rex Richardson.
Speaker 10: I go all over the city and most of you know me.
Speaker 6: I go to a lot of community meetings. I can get to just about everywhere.
Speaker 10: Except for some of Suzie Price's district, which is local, and Rex Richardson's area.
Speaker 6: Rex Richardson's area has the worst bus service.
Speaker 10: Of any of the parts of the city that I have been to, which is just about all of them. And part of it is because of the interaction. Metro. I tried to go to the concert at the for the municipal band in your district.
Speaker 10: I couldn't get there. The metro bus had a break down, so they dislodged all the passengers and they.
Speaker 9: Wouldn't take any.
Speaker 10: More.
Speaker 6: So I wasn't able to go, I'm sorry, I tried.
Speaker 10: Overall, I think we have a wonderful bus system. It's not easy for people to learn how to work the system. And I know that both the MTA and Long Beach Transit are trying to work on that with their programs, particularly geared towards seniors who are heavy users of the busses.
Speaker 10: And I commend everybody's work to try and bring this together and to have an integrated transit system that supports everybody so we can all enjoy events across our city in every council district.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. With that, we have a motion in a second to receive and follow the report. So members, please go out and cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 1: Okay. Thank you. Thank you again to the metro team for for being here. We have our budget hearing next. I know that Ms.. Sharonda Jackson is here. She had an announcement. Let me was we set up for the budget presentation.
Speaker 1: If she wanted to come up and do that and then staff and we can just set up the budget presentation.
Speaker 10: Thank you very much, Mayor. And more so than an announcement, it's actually a thank you. I just wanted to say thank you to the mayor, to the vice mayor for assisting us with the memorial service for my cousin, which was held last Friday.
Speaker 10: And in putting the memorial service together, it made me think that there are hundreds of amazing stories about out there, about Long Beach residents, people who grew up here, who lay claim to the park systems, who want to talk about what Long Beach did for them.
Speaker 10: And we don't really know those stories. I gave you.
Speaker 6: A copy.
Speaker 10: There of the program just so that you could read it for a minute to see what this amazing man accomplished. He was very humble, but he loved his city and he came back to Long Beach whenever he could.
Speaker 10: I spent many years at the airport taking complaints. I think it's time for us to put together a system that allows people to brag, to talk about the great things that has happened in Long Beach, how Long Beach has affected their lives.
Speaker 10: So to the mayor, I'm offering a suggestion. If we want to put together some kind of a communications roundtable or something to explore, how can we learn all those great stories? How can we then share that back to the public to inspire our young people?
Speaker 6: I run across people.
Speaker 10: Commerce. I spent time in Selma, Alabama, and there was a young man who was a principal dancer for for the Alvin Ailey dance team. He was for Long Beach. We met in Selma. I had never knew anything about him.
Speaker 10: So I'm making a suggestion that we take lots of complaints. We have all kind of communication avenues. Let's do one that allow people to to brag, to talk about the great things that have happened in Long Beach and so that we can tell those stories on a regular basis.
Speaker 10: So thank you again for your help with the memorial service. And I think we need to toot our horn a little bit more than what we do. So thank you very much.
Speaker 1: Thank you. I want to let Vice Mayor Andrew say a few words.
Speaker 8: I can't tell you what a great job you did for the memorial service. I know what you're speaking about. And I'm I would hope everyone would hear what you just said, because we need to brag about Long Beach.
Speaker 8: You guys, this is a strong beach, and everyone needs to know how tough we are. Thank you so much for what you did.
Speaker 10: And it's far beyond athletics. I mean, we have Long Beach residents who are helping to run Wall Street, who are doctors, who are lawyers, who are at major universities. And we just have not kept in touch with them.
Speaker 10: But we need to do that. That's a benefit for us as a city if we know where our people are. We never know who we might need to be in contact with out there in the larger community. So thank you so much.
Speaker 1: Okay. Now we're going to back up to back up our agenda to our first hearing tonight, which is our largest of our hearings over the next few weeks. Tonight is focus on three major presentations. We have our continuum of public safety, which is our obviously our our public safety continuum and which involves a few departments.
Speaker 1: And then we also have our kip, which I know is of interest to the council as it relates to infrastructure of all of our streets and sidewalks. And so this is obviously the opportunity for the Council to engage on the largest part of our budget, which is public safety as well as our infrastructure budget.

Speaker 0: Communication from Council Member Richardson Council woman Mango Vice Mayor Andrew's recommendation to request city manager to direct all city of Long Beach employees to participate in the USC. So Price School of Public Policy, State of the Service Public Employee Survey to be completed within the next 45 days.
Speaker 1: Thank you. That's. There's a motion. Can I get a second, please, before I turn this over? Most of the second counselor, Richardson.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
Speaker 2: So tonight, I want to take a moment to highlight and focus on our public employees. I've worked with public employees my entire adult life, from my time, you know, student body president, my time working with California faculty, association with professors.
Speaker 2: And then my time as a worksite organizer for SEIU Local 721, which represented public employees in the county and in the city city of Los Angeles, here in the city of Long Beach. We employ nearly 6000 individuals from all different backgrounds and ages and races.
Speaker 2: And I personally believe that our public employees, they're our city's greatest asset. They are the the voices of our city. They're the faces of our city, the working hands of our city. And they're constantly our public employees across the country are constantly delayed, deal with attacks and pressing issues about maintaining quality of their service.
Speaker 2: And while, you know, a lot of times they don't necessarily feel that the receive the respect or the recognition from the public that they should. And so before so over the last decade, we've dealt with a lot of diminished resources.
Speaker 2: We've dealt with constrained budgets. Now we're finally in a place where we can do restorations and things like that. At the same time, our local governments now have new state mandates and unfunded liabilities and things like that. And so a lot of these challenges consistently contribute to low morale.
Speaker 2: And so the idea here is, you know, after a conversation at Southern California Association of Government Governments, I became aware that USC's Sol Price of Public Policy has designed a survey entitled State of Service. The the point is to measure key success indicators in the workplace and municipalities across Southern California cost the state of California and it
Speaker 2: helps to determine what motivates employees to do their job, evaluates levels of satisfaction, learning of the pressures and stresses and challenges of the workforce that they face on a daily basis. It'll help to inform policy changes that will not necessarily within our city, but across the region.
Speaker 2: It helps us to sort of take really get a snapshot across the region. And so at this point, I want to introduce I want to light up Dr. Bill Rasch, who is associate professor at UC. So price for public policy to share a little bit more about the survey.
Speaker 2: Thank you very much. Council Member Richardson Members of the Council. Mr. Mayor. Thank you for having me. Mr. West. Mr. PARK. And thank you. So for over two decades, governments at all levels of the US, Australia, several countries in Europe and elsewhere have used large surveys of public sector employees to gauge those employee perceptions and attitudes about
Speaker 2: their jobs, working conditions, organizational policies, their coworkers, leaders, etc. And these surveys have been designed and implemented to enhance our understanding of how to improve managerial capacity and performance and increase recruitment and retention of talented managers and employees in government.
Speaker 2: The US Office of Personnel Management for over 15 years has conducted the Federal Employee Viewpoint Survey to produce survey results that are representative of the entire federal executive branch as well as of employers within individual agencies. Responses to those items concerned.
Speaker 2: Job satisfaction. Satisfaction with pay. So on and so forth. And agencies regularly use these particular items to identify internal weaknesses and areas for improvement. Now, as you and I have heard this evening, we know that your employees and their skills are and their knowledge are some of the city's most important assets, sometimes more important than other forms
Speaker 2: of capital, such as physical and financial assets. So the survey that we've designed is to make assessments of the human capital capacity that exists in Long Beach to help you identify areas of particular strength, which I know you have, as well as potential weaknesses both within your own workforce and compared to workforces in neighboring municipalities.
Speaker 2: So we come to you from the University of Southern California's School of Public Policy. Thank you. With a charge to serve our communities and to provide the resources that we have to you for the purposes of advancing and uplifting the lives of our citizens together.
Speaker 2: And as a resident of the second District, this is important to me as well. For the purposes of this project sponsored by. The Hands Foundation of Southern California. Our intent is to provide a well-designed instrument that's based on the best survey practices established by research and by various governments who have done something similar to this.
Speaker 2: And in the past, I myself have consulted the United States Office of Personnel Management on the implementation design of their annual employee census that surveys well over 700,000 survey civilian employees of the U.S. federal government. So in that tradition, we've designed for you a survey that offers unbiased, accurate and informative responses on issues that are critical to
Speaker 2: effective performance here in the city of Long Beach, but in local governments everywhere. We have worked hard on identifying practically every position, unit and department across your city government, such that anyone taking the survey can find their position in a quick drop down menu.
Speaker 2: Through countless test runs, we've estimated the survey to take approximately 20 minutes for any respondent. It is mobile optimized. The survey instrument can be done on desktop, laptop or on any subject subject, meaning an employee's cell phone. It is completely anonymous and we work very hard with the standards of our internal review board to maintain the confidentiality
Speaker 2: of any responded. The City of Long Beach has stated that it seeks a research partner for their Everyone in Economic Inclusion initiative. The research, overseen by this newly established Office of Equity, requires the development of new evaluation frameworks that identify opportunities for social and economic innovation while identifying barriers to economic inclusion for disenfranchized communities.
Speaker 2: The results of this survey and subsequent interviews that our team will provide should provide some support to the development and implementation of policy interventions and inform the strategic objectives for a longitudinal, longitudinal analysis of equity profiles across the city of Long Beach, especially as they concern employee perceptions of the issue.
Speaker 2: Community benefits will include programs designed to support minority owned businesses through more equitable policies and human and financial capital investments. Just as importantly, and maybe more importantly, the initial survey, as well as the follow up interviews our team will conduct ask questions about.
Speaker 5: Your workforce that are widely.
Speaker 2: Acknowledged as key indicators of success and allow for comparison across departments and with other municipalities in L.A. County. In all, we have had so far over 15 municipalities, including L.A. City, that have already taken the survey. We have agreement from L.A. County Sheriff's Department to proceed soon.
Speaker 2: And using these results as baseline comparisons, you will be able to make assessments by department, managerial level or other demographics on all key indicators. For instance, we have several job related assessments of employers on all managerial ranks about their level of satisfaction in their jobs, their pay, and their sense of well-being.
Speaker 2: Among other valuable indicators of morale and work environment. And crucial to this understanding is the level of empowerment employees perceive as they carry out their jobs. Of course, the level of discretion will vary across job responsibilities, but public agencies and private firms increasingly have been relying on participative management techniques and employee empowerment practices aimed at sharing authority
Speaker 2: , information and resources with frontline employees. Something that I witnessed just tonight in what's happening here in Long Beach. So I do expect positive results from the survey, by the way.
Speaker 5: But this includes identifying.
Speaker 2: Limiting unnecessary or burdensome procedures that may be imposed on frontline workers that can many times be imperceptible to management.
Speaker 5: I give you an example. I will keep.
Speaker 2: The municipality anonymous at this point. But this is a mid-sized city in Los Angeles County of over 100,000 residents. And when we asked frontline workers and managers how burdensome, burdensome their policies or procedures were within their respective departments, you see quite a difference between those that have less than five reports, to those that have over five reports
Speaker 2: , those that have over five reports don't perceive the procedures as burdensome, where the frontline workers indeed do. Studies consistently have shown as well that an employee's satisfaction with his or her relationships with other employees and the supervisors that they have is negatively associated with intention to turn over.
Speaker 2: That is to leave their job. Sorry about the little run on with the text there. It reduces the uncertainty and equivocal ity when you have a good relationship with your supervisor and your peers and it reinforces the workers feelings of identification with the organized.
Speaker 2: Zation. The trust in the supervisor is also negatively related with that intention to leave. And so having a systematic assessment of this in your own workforce should be critical to building existing capacities as well as identifying ways to strengthen those bonds.
Speaker 2: As you see again, another example, when trust in leadership is high, this can vary among particular demographics in this particular city. Hispanic employers had far less faith in their performance being judged fairly than non-Hispanic employees. This is something that should be identified by your management and I believe is to an effective stance, except to have systematic evidence
Speaker 2: of your successes should be something that you should strive for. In my own opinion, management relations, of course, are important as well in terms of gender. And sometimes we have some inequities within our departments or within our organizations.
Speaker 2: Indirect encounters with the members of the public employees are tasked with producing desired emotions in a member. I mean, with a member of the public, which requires this emotional management and at times performance by the employee that can quite quickly learn lead to emotional burnout.
Speaker 2: And so in order to conform to the appropriate display that is necessary in emotional management, employees who do not experience the required emotions naturally have to engage in strategies of emotional repression or expression. And these types of emotional labor from repeated customer service encounters have been linked to burnout, which of course can lead to turnover intentions.
Speaker 2: Here again is a sample of some of the questions in a larger emotional burnout scale that we include asking workers whether they feel emotionally drained, so on and so forth. Finally, and probably most important to your interest, both both from a human capital stance, but also from a fiscal stance.
Speaker 2: Job turnover is a pressing issue in the public sector, in part because of the serious consequences that it creates for managers and also the cost it carries to taxpayers. In addition to creating turmoil and causing disruptions in service delivery, turnover imposes considerable costs on organizations separation costs such as severance pay, as well as replacement costs, including the
Speaker 2: cost of hiring, screening and training new employees. The average turnover costs for a full time professional employee have been estimated to be as high as 150% of the employee's annual compensation package. Here again, as this example shows you, the threat is quite real.
Speaker 2: 31% within this mid-sized city within Los Angeles County and indicated some intent of turnover. Sometimes it's from one department within the city to another, but many times it's to leave the city as a whole. Also, most importantly or not most importantly, but also importantly, we we gauge citizen engagement practices and outcomes from your individual workers, your individual
Speaker 2: employees to see if we can collect systematic best practices across your city. And of course, the survey has all areas of analysis being broken down by key employee characteristics, such as department, gender, minority status, managerial status, so on and so forth.
Speaker 2: But we do protect the data to the effect that if there is, let's say, a minority, a single minority within a given unit or department. Of course, we would aggregate the numbers large enough so that no single person could be identified within a given department by their age, whatever characteristic there might be.
Speaker 2: So of the gender differences, the role differences and the various differences among your diverse employee population, it's, I think, critical for you to make an assessment of where these employees stand in terms of their devotion to the mission of their organizations and the city itself.
Speaker 2: And so our draft project timeline is a 90 day top line research initiative. We expect to administer the survey over September and October with data analysis coming in November and initial findings and a report coming out sometime in December, followed by a qualitative listening tour that includes conversations with your management to make sure that we are providing
Speaker 2: the data that they need to make actionable changes if necessary, and others to make sure that they have the information necessary to tout their various achievements. And so with that, as I said, 15 municipalities across L.A. County. Including L.A. City and soon L.A. County Sheriff's Department have already taken this survey.
Speaker 2: And it's our hope for the continued success of Long Beach that you will join these cities. So thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Resch. And I'll and I'll just say the conversation is going on for a while.
Speaker 2: And remember, the survey was a lot longer. But in conversations that we want to bring it down, you've done a good job bringing it down to a 20 minute survey. So my knowledge that. But thank you for your presentation.
Speaker 2: Thank you. Good. And so that said, members, I think this makes sense based on a lot of the conversations we've had at the Council about data and retention and and all those things. And I think a city, you know, the second largest city in the county should participate in this survey that's across Southern California.
Speaker 2: And, you know, I would love to go back to the gang and say, hey, we brought home the second largest city in the sky region for the survey. But that said, I encourage your support. Thank you.
Speaker 1: That's me. My interest. I might. I think this is a great partnership. And so I'm really Dr.. Thank you. It's such a rush. Correct. So, Dr. Asha's, thank you for doing this project. I think obviously as a as a graduate of, of C and I, I taught at a price for a couple of years, a couple of
Speaker 1: courses for that price. I think that the level of work that you're doing with the faculty there is really amazing. And so to have this partnership with the Price School, I think is great. And I think this kind of survey work and and this kind of data and the level of analysis that you're going to do, I
Speaker 1: think, is really impressive. And so I'm very supportive of this. I want to thank Councilman Richardson and the councilmembers are bringing this forward. And I hope that this will be one of a variety of other projects we could partner in the future.
Speaker 1: I know that the Price School has some exciting projects with many municipalities. We do have some projects here in Long Beach as well that the preschool partners with and I think this is a the survey work is really great.
Speaker 1: So thank you for bringing that forward, Councilman Mungo.
Speaker 6: Thank you. Also, I've served as an adjunct at price and I'm taking some time off to have our our first child. So I'm not there this spring. But I do love the work done at price. As a member who signed on to this item, I think it important that any additional questions that were added that are not
Speaker 6: part of the standard SKOG survey, that that this body would at least have the opportunity to at least see them. It sounded as though you made some customizations, but I'd hope that they would not be at the request of only one council member.
Speaker 6: And so I'm happy to arrange a time at your convenience to look at what those look like. And I'm not sure what other city staff have haven't.
Speaker 2: Had any questions.
Speaker 6: He mentioned he added additional questions on our part of Skog.
Speaker 2: I am happy to share with all the council, the mayor's office as well as the city manager.
Speaker 6: I'm just interested in what adjustments were made, especially having co-taught with city managers and others across the region and actually serving and taking your survey through the L.A. County Sheriff's Department as a deputy sheriff that I serve as, I think it'd be interesting at least to know what customizations you brought forward and where they came from.
Speaker 2: So the customizations were rather minimal and they were done through a little bit of conversation with Rex Richardson and the staff mostly focused on economic inclusion initiative, but with with an eye on being a Long Beach resident, making sure that it was appropriate to the city itself.
Speaker 2: But all questions that we use are validated, questions used in previous surveys, and I provide references for any of the given questions as they've been used previously.
Speaker 6: Well, I look forward to looking at those with you in terms of talking through them, because while Councilmember Richardson's priorities are important to all nine of us, and we want to be sure that we didn't want city staff to be influenced by one councilmember where a policy had not been specifically prioritized over any other policy.
Speaker 6: So just interested to see that, especially in light of my signed on to such a big supporter of price. I look forward to working with you and thank you. Had we known you were here, we would have tried to move your item up.
Speaker 6: I didn't see you in the audience tonight, so we apologize for that. Thank you for being a part of our robust budget conversation and many other robust conversations, and thank you for being a long.
Speaker 2: Time, a professor of governance, management and policy processes. So this is edifying and thank you for the time, so.
Speaker 1: Thanks for.
Speaker 5: Being here. We're proud to have you here in.
Speaker 1: Long Beach, so.
Speaker 3: Absolutely love that.
Speaker 1: Councilor Pearce.
Speaker 6: Yes, I'd like to just say thank you so much for the presentation. Thank you for working with Rex Richardson on this. I did not teach at price, but I did work at Lane for a decade and we work very closely with USC in many of our development projects.
Speaker 6: And so I don't want to make any changes. Of course, I feel like you guys have a handle on what kind of. Shouldn't you have? I do look forward to seeing the results and then seeing if there's a next phase.
Speaker 6: I know that I personally am invested in looking at making sure that, especially through our H.R. practices, that people feel like they have a safe space to report any workplace, whether it's violence or abuse or bullying and things, issues like that.
Speaker 6: And so hopefully we can work together down the road on some projects around that with our H.R. department as well. But really happy to have you here and thanks for staying.
Speaker 1: Q Councilman Price, thank you.
Speaker 9: This is a really I didn't know anything about this. I think this is really great. I thank my colleagues for bringing forward and of course, Councilman Richardson for for leading it. I think it's great. I did my master's.
Speaker 9: I got my masters in public policy. And I did my thesis on citizen satisfaction surveys. And if governments issued those to their residents and I thought it was just so interesting to, you know, really use that survey data to implement it into, you know, practical application.
Speaker 9: I thought it was great. So I think this is great. And, you know, I'm I'm assuming it's going to be general enough that they all the employees can relate to it and answer it like you've done in other cities, which is great.
Speaker 9: And I in my other hat, I'm a public employee in Orange County, I'm at the district attorney's office. And I actually think this would I don't know if my boss would agree, but I think this would be a really great idea to do there as well.
Speaker 9: So maybe we can talk later and I can at least throw the idea out there and see if they'd be interested. But I mean, it's just additional data that you can use to guide your management. And in a world where law enforcement is changing, I think prosecution officers could really benefit from that.
Speaker 9: So this is great. I really like this agenda item. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilmember Richardson.
Speaker 2: And Councilman Austin wants to go before I.
Speaker 1: Speak to in Austin.
Speaker 5: Hey, thank you very much for the presentation on.
Speaker 7: I've been kind of multitasking and taking the survey while while you were talking, you said it was going to take 20 minutes. So I figured, you know, it's a good use of my time. And I found that some of the questions to be be very interesting and straightforward.
Speaker 7: You mentioned earlier and and I read on the the website that that you're going to share the data with organizations like the League of Cities and in other public sector type organizations. Were you there any plan to work with any of the the the the employee organizations that that are out there to just get some real feedback
Speaker 7: from from from employees that maybe not associated directly with the employer, but because I think there's a real opportunity to to work with some of the public sector labor organizations like Ask Me and SEIU, folks who are public employee specific.
Speaker 2: So in some of the cities that we've worked with, they we had also consulted Public City, I mean, public employee unions prior to implementing. They were very supportive. We've really had no pushback on this survey from any given city.
Speaker 2: Good has participated at any rate, and we've had a pretty successful rate so far of those that want to buy in.
Speaker 7: And so in terms of the data and when you're done and it's all culminate, it will not be shared publicly as well.
Speaker 2: So it depends what you mean by so in the aggregate, yes. On an individual basis, no. As I said, we're very serious about maintaining the confidentiality and the anonymity of each one of our subjects, to the point that neither a manager nor anyone from the public would be able to identify a single responded by their placement in
Speaker 2: a department, by any given demographic characteristics such as gender or race or so on and so forth. We take that quite seriously. And we had this study reviewed by our internal review board at USC, which abides by the standards by the national standards of Arabs.
Speaker 2: That being said, we work with each individual city as to how they would like the data constructed for their own purposes and own internal purposes. And then as well, we are not in the I'm not in the business to try to expose one city compared to another.
Speaker 2: So when I'm giving you comparative analysis between yourself and neighboring municipalities, as you saw in the slides that I was presenting for some of the examples of the data that we have used, I will not name that given city and to every extent possible obscure, you know, the characteristics of that city to the point that all you'll
Speaker 2: have, all you'll have is basic demographics. That is, you know, is it over under 100,000 people, so on and so forth. Yeah.
Speaker 7: To the knowledge.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 2: Thank you. Just two final things. A one in our motion, we say, requires the city manager to direct all city employees. I want to make sure we're good on on the on any sort of. What is it?
Speaker 5: We can flourish. You go.
Speaker 2: Any meat conversions, we're going to say encourage strong participation instead of direct so that we're encouraging this, we're encouraging full participation. But there would be no penalty if someone does not participate in the survey. Yeah, that's one of the things that should be made clear.
Speaker 2: Also to be clear, the only way that we can provide you good analysis is for it and for us to have robust participation. Thank you. I think we're good at this point. Mr. Roche, you can go ahead and take your seat.
Speaker 2: But I want to just in my motion to, you know, to make that one change. And the second thing is, I think I just want to sort of explain, when we rolled out the everyone in initiative, one of the first motions was to go out and see if someone could help us with an economic equity study.
Speaker 2: And that's when sort of the opportunities presented to us that USC has so sold price as some some competitive grants, some innovation grants and things like that. And that sort of led to the conversation of if we don't find the funding for that study, could some of this help contribute to that?
Speaker 2: That's what the connection was. And so since then, we've identified the funding and policy link, and Chase has contributed $75,000 to conduct this study. But what we got out of the through the process of just exploring our options is an amazing opportunity to participate in this larger, broader survey.
Speaker 2: So I felt like maybe that helps helps us understand the context and connection that everyone in economic inclusion work. That said, I encourage oh not Chase I'm sorry city community development. So that said I encourage vote. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Any public comment? Please cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Pearce motion carries.
Speaker 1: Item 20, please.

Speaker 0: Councilwoman Mongo. Motion carries. 21 please report from Energy Resources. Recommendation to authorize City Manager to execute an amendment to the Southeast Resource Recovery Facility Operations and Maintenance Agreement number 23336 with Covanta Long Beach Renewable Energy Corporation in an amount not to exceed 8,700,000 to provide capital investment for facility equipment, replacement city wide where.
Speaker 1: We have some some interests on the dice on this issue is there is a report that we want to report, Councilmember. Okay.
Speaker 5: So we are going to follow up on this. Sure. We have Bob Dole and Charlie Trump. Yeah. The furthest to Charlie trip. Our manager.
Speaker 7: Of surf.
Speaker 5: Mayor Garcia, members of the City Council under the current operations and Maintenance Agreement Surface operated by Covanta Energy. And this agreement goes until July one, 2024. Covanta is the world's largest operator of waste energy facilities in this country and also abroad.
Speaker 5: In 2017, Covanta notified the city that equipment in the facility had reached its end of operational life. The city contracted with another engineering independent engineering company named HDR to perform a facility assessment report which concurs with Covanta notification.
Speaker 5: The amendment arranges for a total investment of $13.7 million for the replacement of 30 year old equipment in the facility. That has reached the point where it may fail without the investment. The equipment, which includes things like conveyors, motors, control systems, could fail and would cause facility availability to be compromised.
Speaker 5: What that means is we would have to shut down and repair the facility with unscheduled outages instead of a planning and and doing it in a scheduled way. Under the terms of the amendment, Covanta will invest $5 million and the city will invest $8.7 million, which total the 13.7 total investment.
Speaker 5: In the spirit of collaboration. This proposed amendment will also allow for those seeking opportunities to accept higher value waste. This is just to to improve facility revenues going forward, and it also secures a more stable operation until 2024.
Speaker 5: That concludes my report, and I'd be happy to answer any questions you may have. Yes.
Speaker 8: Mr. Speaker. Oh, excuse me. Very public comment because. Come down.
Speaker 6: Yes. Hello. My name is Whitney Amaya, and I'm here as a representative of Eastside Communities for Environmental Justice, as well as a constituent of District seven. I asked the City Council members do not approve the recommendation to invest $8.7 million, not extend the contract of the Southeast Resource Recovery Facility.
Speaker 6: The incineration of waste releases thousands of pollutants that contaminate the city of Long Beach. Among those pollutants are dioxins, which, according to the EPA, are highly toxic.
Speaker 10: And can cause cancer.
Speaker 6: Reproductive and developmental problems and damage to the immune system. As a resident of West Long Beach, which has an 85 to 100% pollution burden score, according to Callan via screen, supporting this recommendation would be a blow to communities.
Speaker 6: There are so many parallels between the Southeast Resource Recovery Facility and the Commerce Refuse To Energy Facility, which was decommissioned June 30th of this year. The Southeast the Southeast Resource Recovery Facility is an expensive facility to operate, and with the power purchase agreement with Southern California Edison coming to an end, it will face a loss in revenue
Speaker 6: when faced with a similar situation, the commerce incinerator increased tipping fees. However, it was not enough to sustain operations. The City of Long Beach should instead begin to invest in zero waste strategies, especially when more than half of the waste being.
Speaker 10: Sent to the Southeast Research Recovery Facility can be recycled, composted or reused.
Speaker 6: I have these factsheets also. Hopefully councilmembers can look over in regards to incineration. I don't have enough copies for you all so I can provide copies tomorrow. But if you guys do want to take a look over and share, I have some copies here.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. But.
Speaker 2: Good evening.
Speaker 4: Mayor and council members. My name is Kobe Sky. I'm speaking on behalf of the Los Angeles County Department of Public Works, where I serve as a principal engineer on our Environmental Core Service area.
Speaker 5: I wanted to speak in support of this item.
Speaker 4: For a decade, surf, as it's affectionately known, has helped Long Beach divert waste from landfills and generate electricity to power homes and businesses.
Speaker 5: This is an important service.
Speaker 2: And it's good to see that the city is.
Speaker 4: Looking to continue to invest in.
Speaker 2: Improvements to surf.
Speaker 4: Which over the years has continued to improve its operations, reduce the impact to the community, and serve a very important resource not just.
Speaker 2: For the city of Long Beach, but for the region. For that reason, we hope that the city.
Speaker 5: Will move forward.
Speaker 4: With this item to continue this important capacity and have it available for the city and for our neighbors. And the county would be happy to provide assistance or technical expertize in terms of solid waste if it's helpful to the city.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Speaker, please.
Speaker 2: To Mr. Mayor and members of the Council. My name is Angela Logan. I am a fourth District resident and a member of our Communities for Environmental Justice. I want to urge the Council to pause on spending $8.7 million on a facility that is antiquated, the industry is adequate, and the approach itself in addressing waste is what we
Speaker 2: look at is, I think, in the past. As you heard the first speaker mentioned, the City of Commerce Refuge, the energy facility, which is also a waste to energy facility, just folded because the feasibility and economics of it didn't pan out.
Speaker 2: And so it folded. The risk here is that the same thing may be in front of us here at the surf facility. And after investing $8.7 million into that, if there face closure, that would be an appropriate use of our resources.
Speaker 2: To say that $8.7 million is a significant amount of money to invest in something at such high risk, something that the amount of resources that we can use for libraries, for the police, for fire, for all these vital, vital issues that we have just heard you talk about earlier today during the budget discussion.
Speaker 2: I want to ask the council to really consider this issue pause, take time to really study these particular issues that are and that we should be considering that if you don't have all the answers to these questions, that you should take time to make a really well informed decision on spending that amount of money.
Speaker 2: The questions I would pose to you are if you are not clear on the implications to investing this money into this facility as it relates to.
Speaker 5: The California Renewable Portfolio Standard program, the change in the power purchase agreement.
Speaker 2: The length and terms of the existing contract, and the existing lifespan of the equipment in question. If you're not clear on all those parts and pieces. Making the decision on spending $8.7 billion tonight would be poor decision making.
Speaker 2: So I want to urge you to pause, to take time to study this issue closely and make sure that you are looking out for the health and well-being of your residents, both financially and within the environment. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. And our last speaker. And then we'll go to the council.
Speaker 3: Dr. Mayor. City Council. City Clerk's Department, City Managers. Department, city attorney. Thank you for allowing me to speak. My name is Daniel Greenwald. I live in Sydney to this. Item. The subject is very important to me. The whole reason I am here.
Speaker 3: The reason I live here in Southern California is because my father found a job here in the ports of Long Beach. And then he spoke to me and I live my father's legacy where as. He told me that where he worked in the ports, it was a.
Speaker 3: Zero waste facility. And by that I mean there was no waste. But then he told me that the the waste there was burnt. At Surf. I couldn't believe it. They burn trash here in the ports. It didn't make sense to me.
Speaker 3: But now we have mercury, ammonia, chlorine led zinc. Everything here because they burn trash here in Long Beach. It's ridiculous, and dare I say shameful that this happens. The fact that we're putting $8.7 million into sustaining this is shameful.
Speaker 3: We should be putting $8.7 million into. Closing the facility and moving towards a more sustainable green, something where fresh air happens and where we burn trash and breathe these emissions. Additionally, regarding the staff's economic analysis, the service revenues will drop from 25 million to 10 million, and that's based on the assumption that people will pay more for
Speaker 3: tipping fees, etc. and elsewhere. The city is currently researching and looking into how we can make our revenues green and efficient. Pardon me. This is. So important to me. I'm just at a loss of words that we would put more money into burning trash and not putting into green and sustainable things.
Speaker 3: I'm sorry.
Speaker 1: No. Thank you, sir. Let me go back with. There's a motion in a second to authorize this agreement. Councilmember Pearce.
Speaker 6: Thank you. I want to thank our committee members for staying late. I know we've got a healthy agenda for staff. I want to thank you for the presentation, but I know that this item was slotted to be last week.
Speaker 6: We held it off so that we could all have conversations and hopefully have a full presentations. I'm was hoping for a more full staff presentation. I know it's late, so I'm going to run through a couple of questions to try to tease out some answers for my for my colleagues.
Speaker 6: The first question I have is regards to the the money that we would put through is only to get us to 2024. Would the facility be viable after that date?
Speaker 5: So the facility to continue to run part of the independent engineering study an analysis we did we would have to invest additional funding if we wanted to operate past 2024. This funding is needed to continue to operate the facility until 2024, and this acts as a bridge to get us through to whether there's another alternative technology at
Speaker 5: that point or another way to go for waste diversion. One of the one of the great things about surf is it really is a a environmentally responsible way for handling waste management. It actually reduces greenhouse gas emissions when compared to landfilling and is also employed.
Speaker 5: This technology is employed worldwide and specifically required by the European Union to handle solid waste where they don't allow landfilling in Europe.
Speaker 6: Okay, I've got a few other questions, but I want to let me back up a little bit. I think I want to just paint the tone. I think the surf plan has been a hot item for a long time.
Speaker 6: We know that it is a discussion where a lot of community members, both labor versus environmental, through the port. The discussion has been what are we doing with surf? We know that there are options to come in and do anaerobic digestion and several other options that could be done there.
Speaker 6: But we have not had that conversation at council. And so for me, the reason why last week I asked to pull it was because I felt surprised by the dollar amount and not being able to have that conversation yet.
Speaker 6: And by saying in your staff report that it says that the economic impact was unknown of what the future would be. And so for me, that raised another. But I had my notes on my laptop. My laptop died because I love my charger at home.
Speaker 6: So just bear with me and how choppy my notes are. Okay. But I think for me, the question for us is how do we move forward with an energy efficient, an option for us to have a community choice in where energy comes from?
Speaker 6: And does it make sense for us to invest this type of money for a short term goal when we don't have a feasibility study or a plan for that next step? So my next question is for to highlight for the community members to the funding that's coming from this.
Speaker 6: Is that coming from the general fund or from surf?
Speaker 5: The funding so far operates under an enterprise fund and the funding for the the the work and capital replacement work that's required is coming from that fund. It's not coming from the general fund, nor would it come from the general fund.
Speaker 5: We're a self-sustaining fund in the city. And as a matter of fact, in the past we've actually had that revenue and have contributed to the general fund over the life of the facility and over $70 million.
Speaker 6: Right. And familiar with the past and knowing that there have been changes at the state level that recyclables are different. And so what would it cost for us to do a feasibility study on the options for a sort of plant moving forward?
Speaker 5: Well, currently the options are landfill and you could handle greenways through or food waste through an anaerobic digestion system if you could find it. But that's a very minimal amount of the solid waste which needs to be handled for the city a size of 500 or 500,000 people.
Speaker 5: So in putting in a full scale facility. Comparable to surf. You would you would be looking at a that's a almost an impossible task from the standpoint of the cost surf facility nowadays with the same pollution control equipment would cost half a billion dollars.
Speaker 5: Our our facility out there is an asset to the city and still has usable life in it. The amounts that we're actually investing is very small. When you look at an investment to replace the whole facility in the neighborhood of of $500 million is small.
Speaker 5: As far as a feasibility study to do that, to do that type of report that's why we we handled ah we we hired HDR last year to give us different scenarios. How much will we need to invest in the facility to run to 2024?
Speaker 5: How much we would need to to invest in the facility to run to 2030 and how much to invest in the facility until 2040. When we use those numbers and we use what our projected revenues were in a proforma to see whether we can afford to actually continue the run and operate the facility and perform upgrades that
Speaker 5: might be required by law or by regulations.
Speaker 6: Can I ask our director what it would look like to get an economic impact report for Cerf in the next year? Because we don't have I mean, it's a one and a half page report that we have in front of us.
Speaker 4: Councilmember We can certainly do that. We could use the report that Mr. Tripp just talked about and expand upon that and provide you something with the next year that talks about all the viability of surf and where it's gone, where it's been, and what alternatives are.
Speaker 4: We can certainly do that.
Speaker 6: And that is the conversation I would love to have. Let me also ask, is my understanding that these upgrades do not fall within the project labor agreement that we have in the city?
Speaker 5: That's correct.
Speaker 4: These are not this is not a construction project.
Speaker 6: Okay. Just simply because it's not a construction project, even though the. Okay. Let me ask one last question. Is there. Excuse me. I want to hear from my colleagues and then I might have one other comment. So go ahead.
Speaker 5: Okay.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilwoman Pryce.
Speaker 9: So I seconded the motion to approve the recommendation, which is my position would be some. I'm hoping that we're still going in that direction. Okay, good. So is it possible for us to maybe get annual reviews or updates on how the facility is doing?
Speaker 4: Absolutely. Nope, no question about that. We have those and we can deliver those to you right away. Yes.
Speaker 6: Yeah. We meet for 30 minutes.
Speaker 5: We do make those available through our JPA agreement. And also, we we are required to do a a revenue report for our partners, the Los Angeles County Sanitation District. So we do do those annual reports.
Speaker 9: That be great. And that way we can continue to monitor the progress, opportunities for improvement, etc., as we continue the discussions. But that's really all I have to say. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Austin.
Speaker 7: So I cued up and I'm supportive of the recommendation, I think and I think Sirf is actually a resource for the city. And we've been working on our state legislative agenda for the past four years, at least in Sacramento, trying to get an extension for Cerf, because we recognize it is a benefit.
Speaker 7: You know, we can have the conversation and debate about the merits of incinerating trash and having minimal emissions versus landfilling. And you know what that does for in the capacity for to landfill trucking trash, you know, 100 miles across the Southern California.
Speaker 7: And what that does in terms of fuel, I think there are some some some merits to us investing in our surf plant. But also, I'll go a step further, further in saying that I think the life of surf should be a priority of this council to extend it.
Speaker 7: It pays for itself. It's a it's a self-generating or enterprise fund that now, I think, has has benefited the city tremendously. And it also has the potential to to bring other revenues in and be a resource not only for our city, but but other cities as well.
Speaker 7: And so when you look at the $8 million talked about, these are not necessarily tax dollars. It's not general fund dollars. These are not dollars that are coming away from services. These are dollars that are generated within surf itself.
Speaker 7: That Enterprise Fund, and I think is like any other enterprise fund that we have, our port, our airport, allow them not to to to invest in the upgrades. And then we as a council, I think we really need to have the conversation about the really getting behind state legislation to to still extend this facility.
Speaker 7: So I'll be voting to support.
Speaker 1: Thank you. And I just want to go to councilman among I know that Councilman Austin is chose to stay let's committee has been working on this issue for years for for many years at the up in Sacramento. I've been there and accompanied him on this very on this very issue as well.
Speaker 1: So I just want to thank the councilman for I know his constant advocacy on this issue.
Speaker 6: Councilman committee I cued up because I am 100% in support of Councilmember Austin's efforts in serving on state ledge and extending surf. So far as not only is the pollution of trucking terrible, but the byproducts of surf are so low that my husband volunteers there.
Speaker 6: So I put my personal family in. Literally, my husband takes actual reference product up to the incinerator and hand puts it into the incinerator. So he's standing in the thick of it on a regular basis, and he's read the reports on what the potential carcinogen options are and all of the specific wipes that they use to keep
Speaker 6: their employees safe. I mean, it is a safe plant. I am so thankful for the efforts of Councilmember Super and as chair of Surf and of Councilmember Austin of as chair of State Ledge, that we need to do what we can to extend the life of surf.
Speaker 6: It is the most environmentally friendly option we specifically cover the trash with. Our clippings. This is something that the Department of the Energy Department, under previous leadership, came out and talked about at community meetings about how people are confused often of why they don't have a green burial.
Speaker 6: And the reason they don't have a green bill is because those green clippings in the burning actually make it more environmentally friendly. And so the detriment to the 710 corridor and the communities that live by trucking and moving trash would actually be much worse off.
Speaker 6: So thank you, Councilmember Austin, for your overview and thank you for your work on this and also thank you member Councilmember Superhot for your work on this. I think that that there are a lot of misinformation out there and we need to do a better job of informing the community and getting out there and letting them know
Speaker 6: what a Jewell Cerf is and how many agencies across the region use it and how powerful it is.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Pearce.
Speaker 6: Okay. So a few things. One is I want to clarify that my number one concern is about process and the fact that this council has not had a discussion about surf and the options while Councilmember Austin works at the state level on this.
Speaker 6: I'm on the surf committee. It's a 30 minute committee and I've asked to help agenda things and I have not had that opportunity. So four and I've only been to one meeting, to be clear. Okay. To be clear, there was one meeting that I that I attended since serving on it.
Speaker 6: So it's really the fact that there's so much conversation out in my community and my district with the community partners we have with IBEW, with those that came here tonight and that we're not having that conversation here. And so while I am supporting moving this forward, I do want to move it forward, but I want to move
Speaker 6: it forward with coming back. And that's what we talked about whenever we had our meeting last week was coming back with what is the feasibility moving forward. So if we invest this knowing that it only gets us to 2024, what are we doing to not only get an economic impact because we don't know what the changes are
Speaker 6: ? This council doesn't know. While it's been good to us in the past, we don't know what those state changes are going to do. We can sit here and rave about how great it is. But we're we're smart council.
Speaker 6: We need to see some numbers. We need to see some options. And so my request, what I'm asking for is three things. One is that understanding that we want a presentation and we can work on agendas in something on the council side around options but that we come back with a report on possible alternatives to surf after
Speaker 6: 2024, including potential anaerobic digestion, better source of separation programs, increased reuse and recycling, and any necessary and any necessary other changes that we need to do knowing that this plant creates energy, that we we use that, what are the options?
Speaker 6: And so how can we get that report in front of us in the next, I'd say year two? Is that knowing that they're not for construction jobs, that there are jobs in there, that I think from talking to folks in labor, that they feel like they would be their skilled workforce, might be a good partner if we
Speaker 6: could just make sure that staff is working with them to identify any skilled work positions. That would be great. And then I said I had three, but but those are my two. Those are my two.
Speaker 5: No problem.
Speaker 4: But we can get all the two.
Speaker 6: Okay. And so just to clarify, we just we're ready to have the choice around the conversation, around community choice. And that's why this is such a big topic for me. So thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilmember Cipriano.
Speaker 2: Thank you. First Councilmember Mongo just mentioned the 710 corridor or so since the 605 quarter appearance next to her district. I want to let her know that this land fills up there, too. Actually, I think I think I just want to give Mr. Dao or Mr. Tripp an opportunity to speak on any of the points they're made
Speaker 2: tonight. Anything else you'd like to say? So how about it? Thank you.
Speaker 5: No, I'm fine.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Constable Richardson.
Speaker 9: Said no.
Speaker 2: Thanks. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Just a couple of things. So I think folks would be more comfortable if maybe there was that check in in general about it. You know, I, you know, took the opportunity when I first got on council to go to serve, take the tour, understand the sort of the challenges with serve.
Speaker 2: And it's very complex. It is it's difficult to explain to the public. And I think the biggest heartburn that I hear consistently is what is the future look like beyond 2024? And, you know, there are a lot of other conversations happening that are around the fringe of what our waste reality of waste looks like and the future
Speaker 2: of Long Beach, whether it's the conversation about the zero waste and the franchise hauling, whether it's the conversation about community choice. So I believe I don't know that today is the time. I actually think, you know, we take some time and think more fully about whether these, you know, serve funds can help contribute to a broader study
Speaker 2: about all these sort of outstanding issues. The the other piece of this is I just want to be clear, and I know this question has been asked, but this special fund serve these are resources that are generated from staff, correct?
Speaker 2: That's correct. So these resources cannot be directed to building to funding public safety or enhancing parks and things like that. Is that correct? That's correct. Okay. After we expend these resources, what is the condition of the survey fund?
Speaker 5: So the fund is kind of a fluid fund. We keep a fund balance. The current fund balance is 22 million. We are going to spend these resources, but on the same and in the same at the same time, we're going to be also operating and maintaining the facility.
Speaker 5: So we're going to get revenues during that period while we're replacing and refurbishing equipment so that the fund will will get down, I think, through 2024 to a point of about 10 million, and then it will actually increase again by 2024.
Speaker 2: So we're not really the point. The reason I ask that is that we're not sacrificing any real opportunity cost to, you know, study or evaluate or have a conversation about the future. What it does is guarantee that time period that we we understood we would have, which was to 2024, it diminishes that risk of, you know, the
Speaker 2: early termination of the contract and it gives us some time to actually figure it out. And for those reasons, I support this move. Thanks.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Before I go back around to Customer Austin. I want to just a couple just a couple comments. So I do appreciate the conversation that we're having tonight. I want to just add that there is a really broad, robust conversation around stuff that's happening in Sacramento.
Speaker 1: We've been working directly with the speaker's office, with Assemblymember O'Donnell and directly with a bunch of our other representatives on this very issue to look at how we both modernize and plan for the future as it relates to surf.
Speaker 1: I think that there I think everything that was said tonight was is valid in the sense where we know that there's a lot of conversation about what the future looks like of waste and how and how the surf plant adapts to that, because it certainly is something that we are very interested in partnering with the state on
Speaker 1: . And so there is a there's a larger state effort that that we're engaged with within the governor's office and within our legislative representatives around the surf plant. And I know that while Councilman Austin has been helping kind of lead those efforts for us, I think it's always valuable to have a presentation or a conversation to the remaining
Speaker 1: members of the council, even beyond the committee and the work that's happening with Councilman Super Anna and the rest of the surf committee. I think if there's interest in that, I think like any topic, we can bring that forward to the council and have a broader conversation.
Speaker 1: It never hurts to have more presentations, but I do just want to make sure that people are aware that that that the surf plant and its future is, is is a very, very broad conversation happening with a bunch of partners, including the Port of Long Beach and including all of our state representatives.
Speaker 1: So I just want to leave it there. So I'm glad that we're moving forward tonight, and I appreciate all the all the input. Councilman Austin.
Speaker 7: I just wanted to clarify a couple of things in terms of the issue coming before the city council. And it has it's it hasn't been you know, we haven't had a detailed, focused conversation on this. But like we mentioned earlier in, the mayor has mentioned as well, this has been a priority for our state legislative agenda for
Speaker 7: the for the city. And so this council approves that agenda every every year as we the last two cycles or couple of years that we've been in Sacramento, I think are one of our major partners. And Labor has been the IBEW helping to move this bill and to move this agenda because they represent the number of workers
Speaker 7: who who work at the surf plant. And so I would say most of those jobs are IBEW jobs there. There was it was a covers he requested. And I guess I just want some clarification from from Charlie. Is this more of a maintenance effort than a construction effort?
Speaker 7: And who will be doing the work?
Speaker 5: Yes. It's it's not a it's it's a rehabilitation and replacement of of motors and conveyors and things like that. The work will be performed by Covanta staff and then subcontractors during that scheduled outages, which are a week or two at a time.
Speaker 5: So it's not a and it's and the work is spread over three years. It's not a typical construction project like for City Hall where you bring in a contractor and you build city hall for a three year period.
Speaker 5: It's just it's it's scheduled maintenance that happens six times a year for about a week, week per year or week at a time.
Speaker 7: Okay. And lastly, thank you for that clarification. I would I would just encourage, you know, as all the city council members to schedule tours and bring in constituents and anybody interested in learning more about serve to those tours.
Speaker 7: I think there's a lot to be a lot of information that can be gleaned from that. So. Thanks.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilmember.
Speaker 6: Constant repairs to last things. I did enjoy my tour when I went, even though I forgot I had a tour that day. Showed up in heels and a dress, still had to wear the paper outfit. So I would love to take some second district residents.
Speaker 6: The second thing, it's great to hear that we're having all these conversations surface in the second District. And I know it's at the port, but I respectfully ask that this office, my office, be included in those conversations because I do have constituents reach out to me.
Speaker 6: And if we're having conversations at the state level ongoing and I don't think we would do that for the airport, then we would leave out a councilmember who runs the airport if we're lobbying at the state around that.
Speaker 6: So I just ask in the future if. If I could be kept in the loop on those so that we can all.
Speaker 4: Just win out. It's in District one, you know.
Speaker 6: So Lena has told me that it was. And when we've done the map, she said, and when I met with you guys, it's.
Speaker 4: In District one.
Speaker 6: Okay. So I will calm down. It's still really upsetting, but it is the whole time I've been on this council, my conversations with with the staff and with people that call my office have been that it was in my district and that's why I was on the serve committee and not the First District.
Speaker 6: But forgive me.
Speaker 5: So at one point we were in District two, we're right on the Ocean Boulevard Saline. I think the last when they redrew the council districts and it caught me a little bit by surprise. Also for 2000, after the census, the new line turned out to be Ocean Boulevard, which flipped us and the one at that.
Speaker 6: So I'm not absolutely crazy. Okay. So just give me that. Thank you, guys, for all the efforts on this. I know that we're working hard and it has been a hot topic, which is why it's so important to me.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 1: And Councilman Mongo.
Speaker 6: I just want to kind of bring something back because one of the things that I get really frustrated with is I know that there are more than a dozen, if not two dozen city staff members here. And I don't agree with.
Speaker 6: A statement that was made, even though I truly respect the mayor, that every presentation is a good presentation of a council, the council dais. We have business to get done. And these meetings last to 1130 at night and my residents don't want to stay up until 1130 at night to hear their items or to come and speak
Speaker 6: on items. And I think that we as a council need to do a better job of handling these kinds of things at committee. Specifically, one of the things that I really respect about Councilman Price is how she's taking her committees out into the community.
Speaker 6: And so when there are those topics to get those in the communities where people are so that we don't have seven and eight people who have had to sit through a council meeting for 7 hours to talk about one item that's important to them.
Speaker 6: I hope that as we move forward in the new year with the new committee announcements being announced, any day now that we can bring the committees into the community where the real dialog should be happening and that that real dialog and and taking that community input can happen before this dais where a decision has been made tonight
Speaker 6: . And I know that when I talk to my residents, I often say things like, it's great to come to the dias and speak for 3 minutes. But what we really need is an ongoing dialog where people are sitting in a room together, dreaming up the future, and those discussions are consistently happening at the committee level.
Speaker 6: So I encourage you, if you've never been to a committee meeting, to attend a committee meeting, if you're passionate about getting something on an agenda, write a letter to the chair of the committee. Those are the kinds of things that can really make a difference in your cause.
Speaker 6: And and I think those tours are also great because I know there are so many misconceptions about so many different things we do because there's so much fake news on social media about what is and is not healthy or good or all of those different things.
Speaker 6: So I look forward to working with any community member who's passionate about this. There are a lot of great things about surf that we've been working on for a very long time, and at any dialog related to State Ledge or surf committees, you're always welcome to come and bring your opinion or a dialog can happen.
Speaker 6: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Are we did public comment already. There's a motion second to approve the motion members. Please go ahead ancaster votes and it sounds like the motion is the staff recommendation, but we're also going to make sure that we bring back an update and some a more robust report to the to the council members.
Speaker 1: Absolutely. Did I get that right? Okay.
Speaker 0: Motion carries.

Speaker 1: Thank you. Next up is going to be item number 14.
Speaker 0: Communication for Mayor Garcia, Councilwoman Mongo recommendation to request the city manager to direct Long Beach Airport staff to develop a plan to lead the nation on sustainability for airports.
Speaker 1: Thank you. So this is actually something that we've been discussing with the airport for many months. We obviously are very proud of our cleaner action plan that we have at our port. It's been a great partnership with both the Port of Long Beach as well as the Port of Los Angeles.
Speaker 1: And we have done some significant reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as well as dramatically changed the relationship that the ports have with the environment and the surrounding communities. We also know, of course, that we have an amazing airport and we're very proud of the way they have moved forward on many initial initiatives around sustainability.
Speaker 1: But we also know that airports in aviation contribute to greenhouse gases through the burning of fuels, whether it's through aircraft, vehicle, equipment, traffic and energy use at our facilities. We have one of the best airports anywhere in the country, and the airport is very interested in moving forward on a a real a similar clean air type action
Speaker 1: plan that would be for our airport facilities. Aviation the aviation industry nationally accounts for about 11% of all transportation related emissions. And so it is a it is a big part of our ability to become a more sustainable city.
Speaker 1: And we know that many airlines are implementing a variety of carbon offsets, including Delta, United and JetBlue. And we're seeing that, of course, and have seen that in the shipping industry as well. We want to look for ways that our Long Beach airport can be carbon neutral on our ground operations, but also to partner with the airport
Speaker 1: or the airlines to go further. The Port of Long Beach has been a tremendous force in pushing the ship shipping industry to innovate, and our Long Beach airport can do the same thing. We've also had some initial conversations with the Air Resource Board, as well as with the AQ, M.D. and a variety of other agencies that are
Speaker 1: interested in in this project. We believe that our airport can be a model in sustainable airports across the country, and we think this is a great first step that would move this conversation forward. What we're asking for tonight and I want to thank Councilwoman Stacy Mango for supporting this and for being a partner in this project is
Speaker 1: we want to request a city manager to work with the airport to develop a plan to lead the nation on sustainability for airports and to work with airlines and other partners to become an incubator of clean tech and innovation.
Speaker 1: With goals are becoming a carbon neutral facility. To add to this recommendation, I'd also like staff to engage our Sustainability Commission as well as our Airport Advisory Commission as they begin this plan. Because I would like both commissioners to be involved in the development of of this new plan and whatever we end up calling it as a
Speaker 1: as a major initiative of the city. And so with that, I'd like to make that I'd like to make that motion. I'm sorry. I'd like to ask for that motion. I see that already is a motion and a second on that.
Speaker 1: And I'm going to turn this over to Councilwoman Mongo.
Speaker 6: Thank you. I really appreciate the mayor's support and leadership on this. It is a great time to be the city of Long Beach, especially in the aviation community. Our airport is a leader among leaders and we are constantly in the top numbers for enjoy ability and travel and tourism and having the best in many areas.
Speaker 6: And it's time that we start moving in the direction of being the most sustainable airport in America. And so this is a very exciting time. I look forward to working with the Airport Commission and the Sustainability Commission to move this agenda item forward.
Speaker 6: And I appreciate my council colleagues for their support on this important item.
Speaker 1: Councilmember Richardson.
Speaker 2: Thank you. And I concur. I mean, Long Beach, the port of Long Beach is really led in terms of being a clean, clean port in the city of Long Beach is an example in terms of its cleaning up the bay and the harbor and our air quality and the things we're doing around air quality leads leads the
Speaker 2: nation. So there's no reason why the Port of Long Beach, the airport, Long Beach Airport shouldn't make a similar statement. And so I support these steps and look forward to what's to come. Thanks.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Councilman Austin.
Speaker 7: Everything that they just said and I'd just like to to add that I think there there are obviously some great, great, great work, best practices that are already here in the city, as I mentioned, with the Port of Long Beach.
Speaker 7: And one area that I'd like to just emphasize that that be studied and I'm not sure if it's a friendly amendment or friendly is necessary on this, but the electric fixation of the fleet around the the the airport, I think, would be a great goal to strive for early to get to the.
Speaker 4: Sustainability goals that we want to get to. So I'm just going to throw that out there to for staff to also study that and look at the.
Speaker 7: The best way to achieve that as soon as possible. I don't know if we need to put standards on it like we have with our Clean Air Action plan, with the the the report, you know, but.
Speaker 4: You know, I think we have certainly.
Speaker 7: Put some ambitious goals together by 2025 and 2030.
Speaker 4: To have cleaner air.
Speaker 2: Standards at the port.
Speaker 7: I think we should be aggressive in this effort to promote sustainability at the airport, to at least put some some some benchmarks in place as well.
Speaker 1: And I would agree with everything the councilman just said. I think the fleet has to be a part of of of this master plan. I think that it certainly is the port. And so I know, as Mr. Romo is there, I just think you're hearing from the council that what we're looking for is a plan that is
Speaker 1: kind of as kind of aspirational as and ambitious as the cleaner action plan is and what that did for the ports port of Long Beach in Los Angeles. And I think for us in in Long Beach and our airport, I think we do have the ability to to produce and follow through on a plan that that could
Speaker 1: be a model for other airports. And I think that's what I'm certainly looking for. I know that's what Councilman Mango is looking for out of this plan as well. Sound good, Mr. Robot?
Speaker 5: Yes, Mayor and council.
Speaker 1: Members. Yeah. Well, obviously, we're we're very enthused about undertaking this review and coming back to the council to present what we believe would be a good plan moving forward.
Speaker 5: It will involve both staff that we have at the airport, as well as consultants, to really make sure that this is a robust and complete review of all the steps we can take to make this a a forward thinking and forward leading airport.
Speaker 5: Great.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you very much. Council Member Pearce.
Speaker 6: I just wanted to echo the sentiments of the council and the mayor. I think that our port has done a wonderful job, our city as a whole. We have a sustainability plan and including the airport and thinking outside the box and pushing ourselves to vision the most we can do, even if we don't have a path to
Speaker 6: that. And a quick turnaround, I think would be wonderful. So have fun on this. I look forward to hearing it come back.
Speaker 1: Great. Thank you. Any public comment on this item, which is the Sustainability Airport item? Please come forward.
Speaker 4: Good afternoon, honorable mayor and council members. My name is Kobe Sky. I'm a second district resident and I'm proud to chair the Sustainable City Commission, very pleased to speak in strong support of the item before you. It's great to see the city take a leadership role on sustainability and this motion is a great step in that direction
Speaker 4: . And have you that have completed a carbon footprint analysis know that taking flights can really add up in terms of the impact on your carbon footprint? There's a lot that the airport can do to address it, including they already generate renewable energy on site.
Speaker 4: They can do more in terms of addressing waste that's generated on site. And really, biofuels are a tremendous opportunity to reduce carbon footprint and potentially reduce CO2 emissions that are generated. So I'm very pleased to play a role in supporting this item, anything that the Sustainable City Commission can do to help move this item forward, we're happy
Speaker 4: to do so and we'll look forward to supporting the report, working with the airport commission and with the council. Thank you so much.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. Thanks, Speaker, please.
Speaker 2: Dave Shukla.
Speaker 5: Resident of the third. I'd like to speak in favor and gratitude.
Speaker 2: Of this agenda.
Speaker 5: Item, and thank you very much for bringing it forward. I look forward to a more.
Speaker 2: Robust public process around how this particular driver and sync and set of emissions and commitments of our city.
Speaker 5: Will play out in conjunction with our other.
Speaker 2: Statutory commitments. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. There's a motion in a second on this item, please. Members. Gordon, cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Council member, Urunga. Councilmember Richardson. Motion carries.

Speaker 0: Council member, Urunga. Councilmember Richardson. Motion carries.
Speaker 1: Thank you. We also had a request to move item 13.
Speaker 0: Communication from Vice Mayor Andrew's Housing and Neighborhoods Committee recommendation to approve naming the green space median located between First Street and Loma Avenue, the John Park and Green Space.
Speaker 1: Q There's a there's a motion in a second. Do I want to go to Vice Mayor Andrews first? Your motion. Okay, go ahead. Vice Mayor.
Speaker 8: Yes, I would like to move a motion myself.
Speaker 1: Okay. I think I think I think the vice mayor wants to move the motion and picture.
Speaker 8: Excuse me. I'd like to move this motion, please. Okay. My colleagues.
Speaker 1: Can we get a push? The motion can get a second on that. Okay. Vice managers?
Speaker 8: Yes. You know, I think that this is something Mrs. Price has really put a lot of time in with this, but I think it's a wonderful idea and I support it 100%.
Speaker 1: Okay. Thank you. There's a motion and a second Councilwoman Price.
Speaker 9: Thank you. This park is being dedicated to an amazing resident who loved his neighbors and his community, and they loved him in return. This item really came fourth as a result of the community reaching out and asking for a space that can be dedicated to Mr. Parkin and to all the great work that he did for many
Speaker 9: years in his community. He played an important role in the history of Long Beach because it was a very, very modest man, and many of his closest friends and neighbors didn't even know what he had done for the city over the course of his life.
Speaker 9: I want to invite everyone to a dedication of this screen space on Saturday at. I'll give you the details right now. Sorry, I didn't pull them up. Saturday, the 18th that we will be at. First and Loma. At 9:30 a.m. to dedicate the space, the Bluff Bluff Heights Bluff Park Community Association will be with us, as well
Speaker 9: as the Park and family. So please join us.
Speaker 1: I make user public comment on the John Parkin green space. Please cast your vote. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Parkin.
Speaker 4: I would just like to thank the mayor and the council and the Bluff Park and Neighborhood Association. This is my father. And it's very humbling, but very nice and very nice tribute. This space is actually right out front of where my grandmother used to live, so he was always tinkering with that.
Speaker 4: So this is kind of fitting. So thank you very much.
Speaker 1: Thank you. So there is a motion and a second. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 1: Thank you. And item 16.

Speaker 1: Thank you. Item 22 Please.
Speaker 0: Report from Energy Resources Recommendation to authorize City Manager to execute five agreements with California Independent System Operator and Southern California Edison Citywide.
Speaker 1: There's a motion and a second issue of public comment on this item. Please cast your votes. Oh, there is. Please come forward. No, please come forward. This is important? No, absolutely. I'm just sorry. Saying that you're here for this item, so please come forward.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much.
Speaker 5: Um, my name is Dave Shukla, um, resident of Third. The electricity.
Speaker 2: Grid.
Speaker 5: Is by far.
Speaker 2: The greatest creation, greatest artifact that human beings have created. It is an achievement. It took 150 years. It literally allows us as a species to.
Speaker 5: Send an email across the world, map the entire world.
Speaker 2: And crucially, especially in the northern part of the state.
Speaker 5: Make more democratic, efficient and resilient. And that's very important. Resilient. Our electricity, electricity production, consumption, uh, procurement. There's a lot, especially the last item about process, about choice, about options. But specifically, having hearing on this and having presentation on this, having more public input on a lot of the.
Speaker 2: Tremendous changes to the grid that are still possible through AB 813, which is bad News Bears.
Speaker 5: I urge you.
Speaker 1: To.
Speaker 5: Really, really slow down and read through all of the.
Speaker 2: Implications of this and all the implications. I know he built half the city. I know that.
Speaker 5: But all the implications with all the.
Speaker 2: Liabilities that he has. This is.
Speaker 5: Important. It's very important.
Speaker 2: Please don't scoff, Kelly. So. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. This remark of a comment. Please calm down.
Speaker 3: Good evening. City council members and everyone in attendance here this evening.
Speaker 10: Well, just thank you for.
Speaker 3: Taking those off of the concert calendar for last week and making it an agenda item so we can have a comment on it specifically. I'm wearing a pin right now for the United Nations SDGs, which are sustainable development goals.
Speaker 3: I just want to you. Really see more information on this. I pulled the attachment and wasn't able to find too much. Spent quite some time looking at different grid alternatives that have been proposed by CAI. So from their last meeting on July 24th, this is goal number seven.
Speaker 3: Which is 7.2 by 2030 to increase system sustainability. Item 78.1, which actually pushes for us to reach targets for 2020 following the Climate Action Adaptation Plan. Just want to see more things which connect the dots and the public to participate in what's actually.
Speaker 3: Having spent time as a production partner in the cryogenics industry. At one point in my life. A difficult subject to broach with the public. So more information, possibly more attachments.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. I see no other public comment. There is a motion of a second Councilman Price.
Speaker 9: I support this item.
Speaker 1: Okay. Councilman Pierce. Keep it.
Speaker 6: Motion carries.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next item, please. Looks like it is 23.

Speaker 6: Motion carries.
Speaker 3: Which aren't actually.
Speaker 9: Chicken.
Speaker 6: That's what.
Speaker 5: I am 20.
Speaker 0: Report from Disaster Preparedness Fire Police recommendation to authorize city manager to execute a contract with the Department of Homeland Security to receive and expend grant funding for FY 2017 Port Security Grant Program in an amount not to exceed 2,000,300 234 and increase appropriations in the General Grants Fund in the fire department by 274,000, and in the General
Speaker 0: Grants Fund and the police department by 1,000,960 citywide.
Speaker 1: Mr. West, a quick update on Ms..
Speaker 4: We're fine. We recommend approval.
Speaker 1: Okay. There's a motion in a second. Any public comment on this? Okay. Please cast your vote.
Speaker 3: He's.
Speaker 0: Councilwoman Mongo. Motion carries. 21 please report from Energy Resources. Recommendation to authorize City Manager to execute an amendment to the Southeast Resource Recovery Facility Operations and Maintenance Agreement number 23336 with Covanta Long Beach Renewable Energy Corporation in an amount not to exceed 8,700,000 to provide capital investment for facility equipment, replacement city wide where.

Speaker 1: And then we also have our kip, which I know is of interest to the council as it relates to infrastructure of all of our streets and sidewalks. And so this is obviously the opportunity for the Council to engage on the largest part of our budget, which is public safety as well as our infrastructure budget.
Speaker 1: So with that, I will turn it over to Mr. West.
Speaker 4: Mayor Councilmembers We were very, very excited to present the fiscal year 19 budget, I think, last week. So this is our first budget presentation. We're starting off as we normally do, with our continuum of care. Tonight, you're going to hear first from our fire chief, Mike Terry, then from our chief of police, Robert Lunar, then from our
Speaker 4: disaster management director, Reggie Harrison. Then we can either hear questions, questions from the council, or we can go straight into Craig Beck's Capital Improvement Project. And then for questions.
Speaker 1: Let me ask the council, unless there's any objection. I know that different people like it different ways. Last year we just we heard all the presentations and then we did questions. So I'll keep it that way unless people want to have.
Speaker 1: Department by department. Is there any objection to keeping it the same way? No. Okay, great.
Speaker 5: So we'll go through all four. So, Craig, you'll follow disaster management.
Speaker 1: So the mission was the one where we do have to divide it up, I think is we need a separate CIP. We certainly have a safety continuum because those are two very separate.
Speaker 4: Never mind what I just said. Okay.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 5: Okay. So right now we will start with our fire chief, Mike Terry might take it away. All right. Good evening, Mayor Garcia, members of the city council. This evening, I will be giving you a brief overview of the Long Beach Fire Department's fiscal year 19 proposed budget.
Speaker 5: My presentation will touch upon the services provided by the Fire Department some of our key accomplishments for the current fiscal year. Notable changes for the fiscal year 19 proposed budget and some major challenges and opportunities that we foresee in the upcoming fiscal year.
Speaker 5: The Fire Department delivers fire rescue and emergency medical services, marine safety response, hazardous materials response, and non-emergency response services to residents, businesses and visitors. In the city of Long Beach, we provide a 24 hour operation for which all first responders must be prepared at all times.
Speaker 5: Additionally, we work to ensure the safety of the community and to prevent fires through proactive fire prevention and code enforcement programs. And we also provide training and education that is essential to the delivery of our core fire and rescue services.
Speaker 5: I'd now like to outline some of the fire department's accomplishments and highlights for the current fiscal year. Over the past 12 months, we have responded to over 72,000 fire, emergency medical services, mine safety and other emergency incidents. This equates to more than 153,000 individual unit responses.
Speaker 5: Included in this number are over 52,000 medical calls and 5800 fire calls. This number also includes hazardous materials responses, airport responses and other non fire responses. This year, we converted our patient care reporting system from paper to electronic.
Speaker 5: Our new electronic patient care reporting system, or EPR, has resulted in better patient tracking, improved communication with area receiving hospitals, robust real time data collection and retrieval and expedited ambulance billing. Also, earlier this year, we partnered with the water department to place a pump pod into service.
Speaker 5: This particular piece of equipment enables us to save over 1.8 million gallons of water each year by recycling water use during training, testing and certification exercises. Our training division developed and conducted training to address response to mass casualty incidents of a criminal nature such as those involving active shooters.
Speaker 5: Our Fire Recruit Academy Class 2018, a graduated 19 new firefighters and our Community Emergency Response Team or CERT program, continues to be a busy and popular program. This year alone, over 155 adults received cert training, which they will be able to use to assist the community in case of an earthquake or other natural disaster.
Speaker 5: Finally, the fire department instituted a mental health first aid program and began providing training to our fire and marine safety first responders. Training is provided by our Hart Team members and equips first responders with strategies to assist individuals experiencing a mental health or substance use related crisis.
Speaker 5: The proposed fiscal year 19 budget for the fire department is $126.8 million. We have a total of 531 full time equivalent staff consisting of 406 sworn is in fire ranks. Another 25 full time year round marine safety first responders and over 180 seasonal lifeguards.
Speaker 5: 26 full time ambulance operators. Additionally, the fire department is supported by a civilian staff in fire operations, support services, fire prevention and Fire Administration. As you can see in the graph, most of our budget or $96.4 million or 76% of the department's total budget is in the general fund, which supports most departmental activities.
Speaker 5: The Long Beach Park, the Long Beach Airport provides financial support in the amount of $5.9 million for fire and rescue services that the fire department provides. The airport and this is included in the fire department's general fund budget.
Speaker 5: 22% of the department's budget is in the Tidelands Fund, which supports marine safety activities, as well as our fire operations in the Port of Long Beach. The harbor department provides cost reimbursement for services provided in the port, and that is also included in the $27.8 million Tidelands Fund budget for fire.
Speaker 5: Rounding out the fire department's budget are the Police and Fire Public Safety Oil Production Act Fund, also referred to as Prop H, which provides an additional support of $1.6 million for fire staffing and the Cooper Fund, which provides for funding for inspection services and business emergency plan reviews to ensure hazardous chemicals are handled, stored and transported in
Speaker 5: accordance with current state and local standards. The fiscal year 19 budget includes ongoing funding for a second Homelessness, Education and response team or heart unit. The mission of the Hart team is to reduce the number of fire department responses to individuals experiencing homelessness through rapid response to 911 calls for service, collaborating with our continuum of care partners
Speaker 5: and educating fire, the fire service and community members about issues surrounding homelessness and available resources in our city. Our first heart unit has attained great amount of success toward meeting this mission, and the addition of a second heart team will allow us to build on that success and reach even more people in their time of need.
Speaker 5: The fiscal 19 fiscal year 19 budget also provides one time funding for a second fire academy. This will this will allow us to fill our current and projected vacancies. Additional changes in the budget include support for a firefighter inspector, a development services permit counter to streamline plan services and a second storekeeper to ensure proper inventory controls and
Speaker 5: maintain warehouse operations that experience a high volume of transactions. Looking forward to fiscal year 19. The department has several significant challenges and opportunities. Our first challenge is to continue to meet the expectations of the community while facing increased demands for services, especially emergency medical services.
Speaker 5: Another challenge is for us to continue to identify emerging public safety issues and implement programs that meet the needs of our community. In addition to providing fire and emergency medical response services, it is important that we remain aware of other public safety needs and try and stay agile as an organization so that we can implement innovative programs
Speaker 5: like the Hart Team. While we. While we. Excuse me. We need to be aware. Excuse me. We are aware that we need to improve diversity not just in the ranks of entry level firefighters, but also in the promotional classifications like fire captain and battalion chief.
Speaker 5: In fiscal year 19, we will work with the Civil Service Department and one of the city's new management assistants to identify solutions that address this important challenge. We also have a number of retirements in supervisory and management positions coming up in the next several years.
Speaker 5: And that means we face the challenge of identifying and developing the next generation of leaders requiring strong management, development and succession planning programs. And a final challenge is to maximize available revenue sources and attain full cost recovery for our services.
Speaker 5: We provide our community whenever feasible. With resources and support in the fiscal year 19 budget. We also have a number of opportunities and reasons for ongoing optimism. First, the potential restoration of Engine 17 would further improve our emergency response capabilities.
Speaker 5: These increased capabilities would have a positive impact on the entire service delivery system throughout the city, not just in Engine 17 immediate response area. We also have an opportunity to improve quality assurance, data collection and cost recovery through the implementation of our electronic patient care reporting system, referred to as PCR that I mentioned earlier.
Speaker 5: In the few months since implementation, we've already begun to realize some of these benefits, and with a second Hart unit in service, the fire department and our Continuum of Care partners have an opportunity to expand services to individuals experiencing homelessness.
Speaker 5: And finally, investments in our public safety infrastructure, specifically funding to renovate and modernize our fire stations and our fire training center will enable us to improve our service delivery and overall working conditions. Mr. Mayor and Council Members, I thank you for the opportunity to present an overview of the Fire Department's Fiscal Year 2019 proposed budget.
Speaker 5: This concludes my presentation and I'll wait to respond to any questions you may have after I handed over to my partner, the Chief of Police. Thank you, Fire Chief Dewey. Good evening, Mayor Garcia. Vice Mayor sitting over there and members of the city council.
Speaker 5: The police department is a is a dynamic organization. We are tasked with the incredible responsibility of enforcing laws, investigating crime. Securing the city's critical infrastructure. And fostering positive relationships and trust within our diverse community. Most importantly, we respond to our community's calls for help 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
Speaker 5: The police department's mission is public safety. Through partnerships, public safety services are delivered through the work of five Barrel's 17 divisions and over 100 distinct units and sections. Our core services include 911 response across the city's 52 square miles, with over 211,000 calls for service in 2017, which averages to about 578 calls for service on a daily
Speaker 5: basis. Investigating misdemeanor and felony crimes ranging from murder to bike theft. The child abuse. Securing major critical infrastructure, including the port, the airport and metro blue line that you just heard the presentation on previously. And providing contract services to city partners such as the Long Beach Unified School District, Long Beach, City College, Long Beach Transit and the
Speaker 5: Pike Outlets just to name a few. Long Beach Police Department operates on all cylinders. Throughout the year, our employees and volunteers are absolutely doing amazing work. As you will see in the next few slides, our department has many accomplishments in FY 18.
Speaker 5: Thanks to the mayor and measure funding, the South Division was restored and became operational in February of 2017. The restoration of South Division represents our community's ongoing support to invest in public safety. I am also proud to share that the police department has officially completed its first year of providing services to L.A. Metro over the past year
Speaker 5: . Officers had approximately 17,000 Metro related contacts, which included calls for service and officer initiated activity. This roughly equates to approximately 50 contacts per day. Response time to the Metro rated metro related emergency calls was 2.4 minutes for those priority calls and 6.7 minutes to routine calls, which is actually pretty amazing.
Speaker 5: This past year marks a successful public safety partnership between L.A. Metro and our city. The size and scale of special events are dramatically larger in the previous than the previous years. As such, the demand for police services to staff these events has increased significantly.
Speaker 5: In calendar year 2017. Our officers staffed 170 events. Those events generated 220 days of staffing. So far in calendar year 2018, 150 events have been staffed, generating 186 days of staffing year to date. We have provided staffing for 14 large concerts and music festivals, 98 film productions, 44 parades and holiday staffing.
Speaker 5: In total, the police department has secured safety for nearly 1 million special event attendees. In technology. The police department recently deployed 200 body cameras in the south and north divisions through a one year no cost contract. We are grateful to the Departments of Technology and Innovation, Financial Management, Public Works and the City Attorney's Office for their assistance
Speaker 5: in making this new program possible. We look forward to updating the City Council on the progress of this new body worn camera program. Responding to homelessness and quality of life issues are priorities to our community and therefore are top priorities for our entire department.
Speaker 5: However, I would like to highlight our quality of life officers who have done tremendous work in addressing homelessness challenges in our city. Since January of this year. Quality of Life officers have made 644 contacts with persons experiencing homelessness.
Speaker 5: They have provided referrals, supplies and mental health evaluations. They have helped transport 149 individuals to the Multi-Service Center, Long Beach Rescue Mission and other social service organizations. They've helped 103 individuals, and they participated in 174 homeless encampment cleanups.
Speaker 5: This is absolutely amazing work. And I do want to point out, even though I'm highlighting the police department, this is absolutely a team effort with other city departments. The police department is an active supporter and participant in diversion programs as an alternative to arrest and as a solution to reduce recidivism.
Speaker 5: In addition to our Youth Diversion partnerships with our local nonprofits, we partner with the L.A. County Sheriff's Department, the L.A. County Office of Diversion and Reentry, and the City Prosecutor's Office to assist with grant funded diversion outreach focused along the Long Beach Boulevard corridor.
Speaker 5: We also participate in the countywide Youth Diversion Program. I am excited to share that we continue to partner with the Office of Civic Innovation, formerly known as the A-Team under the Justice Lab. Together, we are working to better identify individuals who are current high frequency offenders and determine their social service needs.
Speaker 5: As part of this effort. The Jail Mental Health Clinician Program, in partnership with the Guidance Center is underway. In addition, we are firming up the data sharing and communication between our patrol commanders, crime analyst and data researchers with the Office of Civic Innovation.
Speaker 5: The Police Department continues to provide training and develop policies aligned with the Task Force Report on 21st Century Policing, which was released back in 2015. As part of this effort, our training division provides innovative training principles consistent with the current industry standards.
Speaker 5: Topics include procedural justice, implicit bias, fair and impartial policing, and assisting individuals with mental illness. In addition, a special order was issued department wide outlining police department procedures that align our department's operations with SB 54 and the Long Beach Values Act.
Speaker 5: Building community trust through relationships is a foundational principle supported by the Long Beach Police Department. This year we have hosted 13 community police academies funded by the PCC grant. Since the community support for this program has been so extremely positive.
Speaker 5: We plan to host future community police academies in 2019 and have already expanded the curriculum to include youth community police academies, which were showcased recently on the local Long Beach network. I am happy to report that the police recruit class number 92, which is slated to graduate here in the next week, which started back in February of
Speaker 5: 2018, closely mirrors the ethnic demographics of our community. It's 67% minority. Highlighting our commitment to support the advancement of diversity within our department. With the great work of our Community Engagement Division, we have ramped up our social media presence on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram in an effort to humanize our police officers.
Speaker 5: Under the umbrella campaign of hashtag. Long Beach Police Department cares, the warmth and compassion of our police personnel are consistently showcased. In Fy19, the proposed police department budget totals nearly $259 million and includes which includes all funds. The police department is supported by the general fund, grant funds, gas and oil tax revenue and the Title IX Fund
Speaker 5: . The police department also generates revenue through fees, charges for contract police services and revenue from other agencies. In Fy19, the department is proposed to generate $45 million in revenue for the General Fund, General Grants Fund and the Tidelands Fund.
Speaker 5: The total FTE count is proposed to increase from 1214 FTE in FY18 to 1241 FTEs in Fy19. The increase includes three net new sworn positions, as well as the transfer of 27 civilian positions from the airport department to the police department.
Speaker 5: I would like to take this opportunity to highlight some of our department's notable changes. The Police Department's proposed FOIA 19 budget includes an overall increase in sworn in civilian positions. Personnel changes include two additional quality of life officers funded by Measure one officer in the North Division and one officer in the West Division.
Speaker 5: This mean this means that we all have a quality of life officer in each geographical patrol division. Two New Quality of life officers and one detective to support blue line operations. The Homeland Security Lieutenant will be transferred to oversee the airport police section.
Speaker 5: As I stated earlier, this will include the transfer of 27 special services officer positions from the airport department to the airport police section. Two new civilian positions to support the department's personnel and financial workload. And and as part of operational efficiencies, 4.5 vacant civilian positions will be eliminated in addition.
Speaker 5: And it's part of the proposed plan to reduce one vacant lieutenant and one vacant sergeant position to the police officer classification. Other changes include a pilot program to deploy up to four civilian community service officers in the field to assist with select priority three non-emergency calls for service and continued funding for background investigations for cannabis related medical
Speaker 5: and recreational use business applicants. We are grateful for the Council's support for one time funding in past years and propose the following one time funding for 19 a second back to back police academy. Funding for an upgrade to our records management system which will ensure we are in compliance with state and federal mandates.
Speaker 5: 1.9 million in Neighborhood Safe Streets funding to support community based, focused enforcement, and $100,000 to support the jail mental health clinician in FY 19. The law enforcement profession is and is is evolving. And at no other time has it changed so much, so quickly.
Speaker 5: The demands, accountability and expectations have never been higher. The next slide will highlight a few current and future challenges facing our police department and profession. Criminal justice reforms continue to negatively impact our police department and our community, as does unfunded state and federal mandates.
Speaker 5: These federal mandates and state legislation have placed new technology, data gathering and reporting requirements on local law enforcement agencies. Unfunded mandates impact our ability to prioritize and administratively support our core function when limited or no funding is made available by federal and state legislators.
Speaker 5: Looking ahead, future legislation also seeks to change use of force standards, which will not only significantly impact police training during the response to threatening situations, it could endanger the lives of our officers and members of our community. In totality, the police department is facing an ever changing legal environment, and adapting to these changes requires many financial resources
Speaker 5: that must be absorbed by our department and city. Additionally, the police department actively applies for grants from the federal, state and county levels. Recent DOJ grant applications require mandatory certifications to comply with ICE data request and other communication conditions.
Speaker 5: We have paused applying for DOJ grants that require these certifications and will continue to confer with the City Attorney's Office to review new grants that may be of interest to our department and city. One of our most challenging issues is homelessness and our community safety concerns.
Speaker 5: In January, 250 police chiefs from the nation's largest police departments, as well as local government researchers and community partners, convened in Long Beach for an executive level dialog on homelessness. As we all know, this is a community wide challenge, although the law enforcement community collectively advocates for compassionate and fair treatment of individuals experiencing homelessness.
Speaker 5: When the law is violated, enforcement action will be taken. An enforcement tool that is useful in addressing recurring homeless challenges is the stay away order system, which organizes court ordered stay away orders in public locations that are target targets for misdemeanor activity.
Speaker 5: This has been helpful in addressing the needs of residents, neighborhood groups, local businesses and other public locations that have been challenged by ongoing criminal activity. Across the country and specifically in Southern California, the Southern California region. Police departments, including our own, are facing high rates of attrition due to retirements.
Speaker 5: This is a natural demographic pattern given the large hiring trends that occurred 25 to 30 years ago. Coupled with a healthier economy and competition among local and regional police departments, it is more challenging than ever to on board and retain police recruits.
Speaker 5: In Fy19, we will maximize our opportunities to support the needs of the department and our community. We look forward to the potential restoration and funding for a community rapid response. Bike team composed of one sergeant and five bike officers.
Speaker 5: Well, it has been a challenge to implement new technology solutions. We are looking forward to the rollout of Long Beach Coast, a new records management system. The increased use of body worn cameras. Additional contributions to the open data portal.
Speaker 5: And the new citywide fiber plan. Upgrades to citywide technology and police related platforms can make routine activities more efficient, encourage transparency, and allow for more refined data analysis. The police department is also looking forward to rebuilding a training center, which will be an asset to our community and region.
Speaker 5: We will finally retire 20 year old trailers and cinder block buildings at the training division, which have been operating past their useful life. Lastly, to address challenges in police recruiting, we will once again partner with the Office of Civic Innovation.
Speaker 5: We will follow the City of Lee's I-Team approach to do a full assessment of our recruitment, selection, onboarding and training process to identify any opportunities for improvement. This concludes my presentation, and as always, I'll be going after the Master of Disaster for questions.
Speaker 7: Thank you to you for that great introduction. Really appreciate that as always. Mayor, vice mayor and members of the City Council, thank you for this opportunity to present the fiscal year 19 proposed budget for the Department of Disaster Preparedness and Emergency Communications.
Speaker 7: I also want to thank the city manager, the police chief, the fire chief for their support, collaboration and keen understanding of the critical role that this department plays in the public safety continuum. Natural and man made disasters have dominated news headlines throughout the year.
Speaker 7: Over the past month, an unprecedented number of wildfires have burned. From Northern California to Southern California, over 600,000 acres have been burned. Hundreds of thousands of residents have been evacuated. A few thousand structures have been destroyed. And unfortunately, 11 lives have been lost, including those of six firefighters.
Speaker 7: Each disaster, rather manmade on its orders, that is a disaster. Either manmade or natural, serves as a reminder to the city of Long Beach and its residents of how important it is to be prepared, have an evacuation plan, a disaster, go kit, and be prepared to be self-sustaining for at least seven days while first responders are en
Speaker 7: route to the scene. Lessons that we've learned from recent disasters is just how quickly the public tends to respond to provide aid when disasters occur. During recent hurricanes, neighbors and motorboats, canoes and even Paddleboards were first on the scene to aid fellow residents trapped by rising waters.
Speaker 7: Therefore, I offer I 19 budget and staff work plans reflect greater work with our residents and recognition that neighbors will be the first ones in our communities to take action after disaster strikes and before first responders arrive. After the fires and the mudslides in Northern California, we learned that residents will heed emergency notification warnings from police and
Speaker 7: fire and emergency managers to evacuate or shelter in place. Alert notification warnings that are sent timely with consistent and concise managed messages, if heeded, can and will save lives. Therefore, our budget and staff work plans reflect a greater investment in tools and technology to notify the greatest amount of residents and visitors possible more effectively using multiple methods
Speaker 7: of communications. And finally, this year is the 50th anniversary of the first call to 911. And while we celebrate this occasion with our dispatchers, we are well aware that 911 equipment across the country are aged and in use.
Speaker 7: 24 seven. Long Beach is no exception. Therefore, we have invested in new corps communications systems to ensure clear and predictable communications with our residents and first responders in the field. The Department recognizes the important role that we play as part of the public safety continuum.
Speaker 7: We are dedicated to making Long Beach a more prepared city through our emergency communication systems and our disaster preparedness, outreach and training programs through through the department's course services. We've touched the lives of our residents in many important ways.
Speaker 7: The core services of the department are really echoed in its title. We provide 911 communications for police, fire and emergency medical calls for service. And we are responsible to work with our city staff, our community partners, hospitals, school district transit agencies and the business community to provide to respond effectively to a major emergency or disaster.
Speaker 7: The department is also responsible for the coordination of the city's Homeland Security grant funds. Accomplishments in the 911 call center include handling over 800,000 calls for service and answering 90% of those calls with an industry standard of 10 seconds.
Speaker 7: We completed the replacement and upgrade of both our radio dispatch system and a911 telephone system at a combined cost of just over $8 million, funded through Homeland Security grant funds and the California Office of Emergency Services. And I am proud to note those upgrades were completed without any disruption and emergency calls for services in December.
Speaker 7: Reliance Text to 911 system which provides equal access to emergency services to residents who are hearing and or speech impaired. The system can also be used by residents in situations where it is too dangerous to call 911. The department was rest was recently approved by FEMA to implement the Federal Wireless Emergency Alert Messaging System.
Speaker 7: This system allows the city to send emergency messages to residents and visitors directly to their mobile phones. Similar to the way Amber Alerts are sent, there is no need to sign up to receive these messages. The system will be used in the event of a major citywide disaster.
Speaker 7: The system will be supplemental to our current alert Long Beach system. And as was stated earlier, we coordinated Homeland Security grant funding this year totaling $14 million, a portion of which was used for the radio replacement project. Accomplishments in the area of disaster preparedness include implementation of the pilot ready your Long Beach Neighborhood Program in two neighborhoods
Speaker 7: . The Ready Your Neighborhood Long Beach program trains residents to identify those at risk in their neighborhoods elderly neighbors, mobility impaired neighbors who will require assistance during a disaster. The program also trains neighbors to identify the resources they have retired nurses, neighbors who have ladders and other generators that can be used during a disaster.
Speaker 7: This program teaches. And prepares residents to work together in the event of a disaster. And we're really, really happy to have been able to work with the Grant neighborhood in the ninth District to pilot two neighborhood programs. We are also really pleased to have established a Long Beach disaster relief fund just today, announced in partnership with Lambie's
Speaker 7: Community Foundation. This fund is designed to provide assistance with local recovery efforts for incidents not covered by FEMA. The fund is managed by the foundation, and contributions to the foundation can be made at the Lambie's Community Foundation website.
Speaker 7: This was a very busy year for us. We conducted outreach to over 30 community businesses and resident groups on business disaster preparedness topics. We also maintained a robust social media presence, and we conducted or participated in a number of annual preparedness events, including the Tsunami Walk and Preparedness Fair, our Pet Preparedness Month Outreach Program, and the upcoming
Speaker 7: Ready Land based Preparedness Expo, which we invite all residents to attend on September the 15th at Cal State Long Beach campus. And finally, we continue to receive reimbursements from FEMA for claims following the 2017 winter storm, events so far totaling $600,000 in reimbursements.
Speaker 7: We accomplished all of that with minimal impact to the city's general fund. 80% of the department's budget is devoted to 911 call taking and dispatching. The remaining budget covers disaster preparedness, outreach and training, facility maintenance and Homeland Security Grant Administration.
Speaker 7: The department's notable changes include a new disaster preparedness officer, Jeff Duvall. Jeff, would you stand? We recently recruited Jeff from the city of Anaheim, where he held a similar position for a number of years. We also are pleased to announce a new administrative officer, Diane Brown.
Speaker 7: Who's handling the slides at this moment. But please stand, Diane, to be recognized. We recruited Diane from Long Beach City College, but she is no stranger to the city of Long Beach. She spent 15 years in our health department before going over to lobby City College.
Speaker 7: Both of these individuals are going to be assets to the department, and we will. And we continue to work on measure funded projects, upgrading the EOC, heating and air conditioning system using $800,000 of funding in the area of challenges and opportunities.
Speaker 7: We continue to be challenged by the slow pace by which residents have been signing up for the Long Beach. We encourage residents to sign up for a look at Long Beach so that we can ensure everyone receives timely notification in the event of a disaster.
Speaker 7: To help with the sign ups, we are in the process of switching a little Long Beach to a new vendor who will make the sign up process easier and quicker. Cross-training work continues with our 911 dispatchers. Cross-trained. Dispatchers have been utilized to provide additional resources for large scale incidents.
Speaker 7: We currently have 20% of the staff in the cross training program. However, our priority continues to be recruiting and training additional dispatchers to reduce overtime. And we will continue to work to expand the Ready Your Labs neighborhood program to include several additional communities yet to be identified.
Speaker 7: And finally, in October, FEMA will facilitate a tabletop exercise for our department heads to support their ability to make policy level decisions that support field responses to doing an incident. Thank you. Thank you for your support. This continued.
Speaker 7: This concludes my presentation.
Speaker 8: Thank you very much. And the last of my four speakers will be capital improvement program, actually.
Speaker 4: Vice mayor. We're now going to conclude and go to questions for the three departments, and then Mr. Beck will do capital improvements when the questions are done. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Susie. Q Yes.
Speaker 9: Thank you very much, gentlemen, for your presentations. Each of them was incredibly informative and impressive in terms of all the accomplishments. And of course, looking ahead at the opportunities, present some great opportunities for us as council members in terms of policy setting.
Speaker 9: So I'll take them in the order that they were presented for. Fire Chief Drury, thank you very much for your presentation. I note that our response times are good and they're expected to get better in Fy19. Could you share a little bit about why that's important and how the restoration of some of the fire resources that we
Speaker 9: have has assisted and response times overall?
Speaker 5: Mayor Councilmembers. Councilmember Price. Yeah. Thank you very much for the question. Our response times have remained pretty static over the last year, although on an annual basis we still see about a 3 to 5% annual call volume increase.
Speaker 5: And so obviously the restoration of Engine eight last year and adding Rescue 12 back into the system last year helped ease the pressure that would typically be applied to our organization as a result of increasing call volumes. So across the city for first response, first engine or truck on scene, we're still writing about the same ballpark.
Speaker 5: We've been about 6 minutes and 35 seconds, and we're still meeting the national standard to get the paramedics on scene within the allotted time set out by the NFPA. Of course, to your question, as you add a resource back into the system, which our data shows clearly that we're still seeing the same call volume increases, we're staying
Speaker 5: about where it was and it's continued to grow over the years. Adding into the resource back into the system will enable to enable us to ease the pressure citywide. I've said this before many times publicly that just because we put a resource in North Long Beach doesn't necessarily mean it's dedicated just North Long Beach at any given
Speaker 5: moment throughout the day, that resource could be called upon to respond down to Naples Island or to downtown and vice versa. So as we add another resource into the system and it's been proposed Engine 17, which is over on the east side of Long Beach, that will help ease a lot of pressure that we currently feel in
Speaker 5: central Long Beach or downtown by adding that additional resource. So we're excited about that as an opportunity, excited to continue that discussion. And I think anything that we add back into the system now will just make our system more effective than it already is.
Speaker 9: And I appreciate that explanation and I've shared with with my residents. I know we've increased response times in the third district in several areas, and that has occurred as a result of all the restorations, whether it's a rescue 12, whether it's hopefully going to be 17, whatever it is, it takes the pressure off of the whole system
Speaker 9: , and I think that's a great thing. So I wanted to highlight that. I also noted that one of the changes that you have proposed for FY 19, I think it's a really great change and I don't think it was highlighted enough, with all due respect, in your presentation, because it's actually a business friendly addition, and that's the
Speaker 9: addition of the additional staff for Planned Trek. I think that, you know, sometimes you don't associate the fire department as as helping us be business friendly. But for us to be able to expedite this and streamline some of these requirements as businesses go through the permitting process, I think it's it's really important.
Speaker 9: So thank you. Would you like to comment on that.
Speaker 5: Councilmember? I just want to say thank you for acknowledging the work of our Fire Prevention Bureau. That that bureau is led by Deputy Chief Rick Brant, which we all know is perhaps one of the best in the business in the world of fire prevention, special events, filming all the stuff that he does and his entire team in
Speaker 5: fire prevention have embraced his vision there. And that is to be more business friendly, to speed up the process and ensure that those people that want to want to do business in Long Beach know that they have a partner in the fire department, that we're going to help them get to where they want to be.
Speaker 5: So I appreciate you bringing that up. And I apologize for not highlighting a greater. Well.
Speaker 9: It's again, it's it's kind of not a natural connection. But I think that the, you know, residents may not understand the important role. And we have a team member on the city three team Lisa West, who's our business liaison.
Speaker 9: And anytime a business applies for a permit in the district, she kind of holds their hand and walks them through the process. And it's only been through her eyes that I've been able to see the work that the fire department does.
Speaker 9: So thank you for that position. I wholeheartedly support it. I also want to commend you on the use of the electronic patient care reporting system. I had the opportunity to go on a ride along with the fire department recently and got to see them use it.
Speaker 9: And my sister is one of the physicians at the New Star Behavioral Center that we have and Councilman Oranga as a district. And she told me that she is actually when the Long Beach fire has come, has been using the program and she was speaking very fondly of it.
Speaker 9: So, you know. So you can get some feedback from one of the practitioners on the other side. I think it's been very successful, so thank you for that. And then finally, just a comment to you. Gosh, it was probably about a year ago that you and I were having just an informal conversation and you shared with me
Speaker 9: some of your vision on peer support programs. And who would have known at that time how important your commitment to peer support would have been for your department in the last year. So so kudos to you for having that vision and for making mental health mental health focus such an important part of your leadership.
Speaker 9: Both both the work that you do and the work that Chief Learner does involves leadership of a group of people who are susceptible to vicarious trauma on a daily basis. And again, your foresight was very, very, very apparent to me during the last few months.
Speaker 9: So thank you, Councilmember.
Speaker 5: I feel like I need to jump in here. That's that's as much as I embrace that. The entire command staff, the deputy chiefs, the assistant chiefs, the rank and file, our union, everybody in our organization embraced that mission together.
Speaker 5: And one of our deputy chief said during we're going through a very dark time about a month ago, said that everything we started to put in place five years ago was was preparation for that moment. And I couldn't be more thankful for the work that these men and women in the organization do and the support that they
Speaker 5: lent to that program specifically.
Speaker 9: Well, thank you. Thank you for keeping up the great work of your department despite unforeseen circumstances. We all appreciate it. Thank you. So I'm going to move on now to Chief Luna, if that's okay. Chief Luna, a couple of questions I had for you.
Speaker 9: You talk on page three of our department overview, you talk a little bit about the pilot staffing models that we have. And I was hoping that maybe you could share a little bit more about those pilot staffing models and what we're hoping to accomplish with those.
Speaker 9: And I think that's kind of the use of some non Swarns to assist to support.
Speaker 5: Members of the council. Councilwoman Price Our vision for that is, is kind of something we did years ago and we stop doing, and that's to hire civilian individuals to go out and in a pilot form and handle some priority.
Speaker 5: Three calls. Some report calls, non-injury, traffic collision, things of that nature to relieve some of the pressure from the police officers out there. There were some things that worked in the past, some things that didn't. I think it's it's worth trying and and see where it gets us and and see how.
Speaker 5: Number one, the safety of the employees is important. Is it going to increase our capacity in other areas if we can get more proactive time for our patrol officers to do either quality of life work, more crime prevention work, getting out of their cars and playing with kids in the park, that would be awesome.
Speaker 5: We're always trying to find ways to maximize our police officers times in the field, and we think this may be a way to do it.
Speaker 9: So are you open to some suggestions on what that might look like in terms of the support role?
Speaker 3: Of course.
Speaker 9: Well, I don't know how defined the program has been, but I do know. Well, first, let me just start with saying you're absolutely correct that these are changing times in the world of law enforcement and public safety. And I commend you and your command staff for being nimble and responding to some of the changes that have taken
Speaker 9: place that have really changed the way policing is done. And although there's a lot of, you know, kind of fluffy rhetoric about how things should be done, at the end of the day, it's our police officers that people turn to when they have quality of life issues or when a crime happens and they expect them to solve
Speaker 9: every problem. And oftentimes it's not a police problem. And when we take tools away from police officers that limit their ability to enforce laws, I think it puts a lot of pressure on police departments to solve problems that really are not their problems to solve.
Speaker 9: So I commend you for leading at a time like this, and I can understand that right now is probably one of the most challenging times for someone for police officers, because it's very hard to recruit people into the profession.
Speaker 9: With all the changes that are happening. So I appreciate your commitment to enforcement and I support your efforts to do the work on the front end, the outreach, the education, the work on the back end, and the diversion programs and efforts to rehabilitate that, balanced with the commitment to enforcement, I think, is what makes a modern day
Speaker 9: police chief successful. And I see all of those qualities in you. So thank you.
Speaker 5: I appreciate that. And if I could just have a quick couple seconds, if I can have a lot of our command staff is here, if you guys can just stand really quick, it's good to stretch after being sitting here for several hours, but just stand and be acknowledged.
Speaker 5: It's it's a team effort from our entire command staff and every every employee who works on this police department. Just absolutely amazing people. We're so blessed to have them all. So thank you, guys.
Speaker 9: Absolutely. Thank you. They do amazing work. And I have been I have been incredibly blessed to work one on one with several of them sitting up there. So I feel very lucky about that. So before I go back to that question about whether you're open to well, no, I'll go into it right now.
Speaker 9: So I think there there's probably some opportunities. And for us to use the resources that that you've talked about, these are new kind of creative pilots for things like supporting our police officers. You know, when an arrest is made, could there be an inventory team that would that would identify the property and store the property so that
Speaker 9: the officer doesn't. Could there be a booking team that would transport the individual and book that person so that the officer doesn't have to go to jail? But just, you know, those kinds of ideas of of how non sworn could be used so that we're not taking police officers off the street.
Speaker 9: But I defer entirely to you and your team on on how that works. But I will say that is something that I've heard a lot of police chiefs are looking at right now in terms of trying to manage resources with the changing staffing and the changing limitations that we have in the industry.
Speaker 9: So I, I think that that has some potential and I look forward to hearing how that rolls out in practice. You aren't one of the pages here in our budget book, we talk about key measures, performance measures, and of course, we have on their response time to priority one calls.
Speaker 9: And we have violent crime rates. And this isn't meant as a criticism whatsoever. But is there a reason we don't track property crimes or quality of life crimes as a performance measure? Because, you know, those seem to be the bulk of the calls for service that some of us get.
Speaker 9: And I wonder if there is a way to track those as a performance measure as well, or is this kind of the best practice to track these things is performance measure.
Speaker 5: We absolutely track crime and that's how we anybody would grade their police department, including ours. For us, as of July, our our July index crime report, that's the latest one we have. Our property crime is down 8.5% throughout the entire city.
Speaker 5: So that is one area that we consistently look at in regards to quality of life crimes, whether they're lower grade property crimes, that is well within what we look at. And each month. And I'd invite anybody behind the dais to join us for our monthly crime meeting.
Speaker 5: That Deputy Chief Heber facilitates to see exactly how much we do, how much we pay attention to, and the creative responses by our entire team of employees to address these these crime trends. It's it's absolutely impressive, and it's done consistently.
Speaker 5: We take this stuff personal. We lose a lot of sleep over it. We want to make sure that this city is safe and we do everything we can to make sure that happens.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Chief. I appreciate that. And I know you're committed to that. I just I would like to see those numbers highlighted more as well, because those are really important to anyone, you know, who has had a residential burglary or something and feels that that crime maybe isn't taken as seriously, because I know it is.
Speaker 9: And I want us to highlight those numbers more. So we talked a little bit about grants and in your presentation you covered grants a little bit. And I think you touched upon this, that maybe we've paused for applying for some of the grants that require certification because of the state and our position on the the Values Act
Speaker 9: . But is there any indication that national policies are going to impact our existing grants or the grants that we're relying on for Fy19?
Speaker 5: I would say yes, yes, and yes. That is such a fluid situation with national politics being what they are. There's consistent challenges in court and honestly, we're working hand in hand with our city attorney consistently to try and stay ahead of this.
Speaker 5: We don't want to miss out on any grant opportunities. And it seems like, at least in some of the ones that we weren't able to put in for because of our current city policies, those are things we're paying attention to.
Speaker 5: And obviously if we get to an area where we're deficient and funding will be coming back to this policy body to ask for additional funding, if we can't get it through the normal grant channels that we normally get them from.
Speaker 9: And Chief, I'm asking you as a as a member of this body to please do that, because it's important. I think that we know I'll tell you right now, as a matter of principle and as a matter of my fiduciary duty, having more police officers on the street and having the resources to be able to fund that
Speaker 9: is more important to me than sending a message. And so I think if we're in a situation where you feel that significant grant funds are going to be affected by some policy that we're setting, please. I want to know that because I want to make those decisions with that in mind, because we are at a great place
Speaker 9: with our police department. We're continuing to increase and hopefully, hopefully there is some wisdom at the highest levels of this nation that realizes that we shouldn't be punished. But if that starts to happen, then I would ask that you please keep us up to date on that.
Speaker 5: Yes, ma'am.
Speaker 9: Or there is an imposition of a traffic collision fee that we're going to be implementing. Is that a fee that's assessed to the suspect or the defendant in a DUI case?
Speaker 5: To the suspect.
Speaker 9: Or suspect or defendant. Did they have to be charged? Do we now?
Speaker 5: I'm sorry. I'd have to double check on that.
Speaker 3: Okay.
Speaker 9: No problem. Thank you. The transfer of the 27 positions at the airport, the TSOs.
Speaker 6: Does that affect their job at all, their job.
Speaker 9: Duties or their training? Is that something that is going to be impactful to those 27 individuals at all?
Speaker 5: We believe the impact will be positive. They will fall under our imbroglio, our chain of command, our training standards. And that will, even though they are great people and they've done great work out at the airport. We believe that the scenario that we're proposing makes them better, makes us better, makes our airport and city safer.
Speaker 0: Okay. Thank you, Chief.
Speaker 9: You on.
Speaker 6: Page 384.
Speaker 9: Where we outlined the summary of changes, there's a reference to downgrading two positions a sergeant and a lieutenant position. But then there was also a reference in the PowerPoint about filling two vacancies. Is that I'm sorry, removing those vacancies.
Speaker 9: Is that the same reference?
Speaker 5: There is. There is one vacancy with the sergeant. The lieutenant position is not vacant, at least not in the location that is proposed to be reduced.
Speaker 9: Do we know what departments those are going to be in?
Speaker 5: The lieutenant comes from the patrol bureau and the sergeant comes from the investigations bureau. Okay. Proposed.
Speaker 6: Okay.
Speaker 9: So my only concern with those is that, you know, there are certain that many obviously every division in the police department benefits from expertize. But there are a couple of areas where I think we especially need expertize right now.
Speaker 9: And I would hate to downgrade positions and that would be with pretty. Special events. Many of those are events are in my district and in Council Member Pearce's district. I know representing the coast. And so having that historical context and that knowledge to be able to work with and and collaborate with community members is so important that
Speaker 9: I would hope that, you know, I wish we weren't downgrading those positions or filling those vacancies. But if that has to be done, I just would ask if there could be a second look as we go through these discussions to see if that's necessary.
Speaker 5: Yes, we will. We have been doing that. Those are very difficult positions to reduce. But in a sense, when you get the directions to balance your general fund budget, at the end of the day, that equates to about $140,000 that I'm going to have to find somewhere else.
Speaker 5: There are there are no good positions to reduce. We're just at from a capacity perspective, that's just where we're at. So it was the best case scenario of not a very good situation to begin with, if that makes sense.
Speaker 9: It does, Chief, and I appreciate you sharing that. I think it's important for me and my colleagues to understand that, because it may be important for us as we think about the budget. So I appreciate that. Thank you.
Speaker 9: I know that we're going to do a body worn camera. You know, we're doing the pilot with the 200. I've I've said this many times and I know a lot of my colleagues feel the same way. We'd love to see a full roll out of body worn cameras.
Speaker 9: And this is more, you know, a request to the city manager. I think that we think of a way that we can incorporate a full rollout in FY 20. And I'm hoping that maybe we can collect some data on the positions that we're going to be funding to examine the cost of redactions for the body worn camera
Speaker 9: , to see what the true cost of that will be and maybe pilot, you know, for those 200, how many praise are we getting and how many redactions are we actually doing? Because it may be that we've overestimated what the operating costs might be, might be.
Speaker 9: And so I just hope that we would be thinking about a FY 20. We really need to have body worn cameras throughout the whole city. I can't stress important how important that is.
Speaker 5: Yes, we agree. And that's the purpose for not going city wide deployment at this time. To do them in south and north gives us the opportunity to look at the logistics of it. The investigative portion of it, the proportion of it.
Speaker 5: And we believe doing this for the amount of time we're going to do it will give us the ability to come back and give all of you a true cost for what this would cost for a full blown body worn camera program.
Speaker 9: Great. Thank you, Chief. Do we anticipate to get some data on the clinician that's in the jail in terms of how many people the clinician sees and how many are referred to successfully for services?
Speaker 5: That is our goal. We have some very, very smart people working on our innovation team and over at the Health Department, they're all about stats and data, and I can't wait to see what comes out. I'm really excited that the city put this much effort into looking at creative solutions, not just complain about criminal justice reform, but
Speaker 5: look at thinking out of the box and trying to figure out how to solve these problems long term.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Chief. And then I just have one final question, and that is, I know you referenced the number, I think it was 825, but how many sworn officers do we have now and what would be the ideal number of officers for a city of our size?
Speaker 9: But I'm going to I'm going to refer to some of our financial policies. But looking at it from an optimistic view.
Speaker 6: What would it be?
Speaker 5: So you notice everyone laughing over here at me when you ask me that question. Our F-18 budget, it's sworn numbers are 848. That's what we're budgeted at. And in regards to what's that right number? Honestly, four, I mean, there's formulas that different people use.
Speaker 5: And you look at formulas for each cities. If you just look at California, if you compare us to Oakland, Sacramento, Fresno, we're within about the same range. There's arguments about, you know, officers that are just assigned to you as opposed to contract bodies.
Speaker 5: Every city is unique. They have interesting needs. I can tell you this, our people are working their butts off. I believe that the officers we have are doing the same work of the officers we had seven or eight years ago before the recession hit.
Speaker 5: All of you wonderful people, but you work our butts off. And I'm not complaining. That's just the business we're in. So. So getting to the number of. Of what we need. I know when we had 1200, we used to say it wasn't enough.
Speaker 5: It just depends on the community. My job is to stay engaged with all of you, with our community consistently, listen to the needs that they have, and then try and prioritize and figure out what we can and cannot do.
Speaker 5: You guys, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, are, I think, are doing a good job of managing the city. We are with our department that runs a lot on overtime. And and like I said, our people are working their tails off.
Speaker 5: But I think we're getting the job done. So we'll continue to monitor it. I will not be shy about coming to you and saying that we're at capacity and we may not be able to do something that you're asking us to do or reshift and reprioritize because we just don't have the people to do it.
Speaker 5: Now I'm not talking. That's everyday business. If we're dealing with an emergency or where we've got to call people back to work. Our department is very well trained and very well prepared to deal with that any day of the week.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Chief. And and just in conclusion, I agree. Your department and the men and women of your department are doing tremendous work, and it's obvious in the things that they do every day. I recently have the opportunity to go to the Long Beach courthouse on an Orange County case because a judge had sent a case over
Speaker 9: to Long Beach because of a conflict. But anyway, as I was walking through the hallway in my capacity as an Orange County prosecutor, I saw the hallways of the courthouse lined with Long Beach officers. And I'm a huge sap, and I don't think anyone here is that shocked to hear that.
Speaker 9: But I literally had to take a moment in the hallway just looking out at the Sea of Black with just the sense of incredible pride for this department. I wanted to walk up to every officer and say, Hi, I'm on the council.
Speaker 9: I'm so proud of what you're doing. But I didn't do that. I just walked by them as as did the other prosecutors in the courthouse. But I just feel just I get to work with them all the time and I get to work with officers from agencies all over every day.
Speaker 9: And I'm really proud of the officers from the Long Beach Police Department. They're incredibly respectful and everything that they do and our firefighters as well. So thank you to both chiefs for everything.
Speaker 5: We really appreciate that. Just a correction on the numbers. I said before the recession, I said 1200. It's actually 1020. That was our where we were top budgeted numbers before. I just want to correct that before somebody puts out in the paper and says something about that.
Speaker 9: Thank you, Chief. Okay. So just one final question. I have and I really don't want to call you the master of disaster or whatever it is they've been calling you. I'm not sure. Do you like it? I don't.
Speaker 6: I can't tell if you like it. You don't like it? I don't.
Speaker 7: Think so. Remember that it originated somewhere?
Speaker 9: Yes. By the city manager.
Speaker 6: I believe.
Speaker 9: I've heard it come out of his mouth. Anyway, I wanted to just acknowledge the great outreach and partnership that you and your team have been doing. We've been privileged to have two San Army walks with your team, and I think they both had great turnouts and it's been fantastic.
Speaker 9: So thank you for that. The 911 operators, you talked about the ongoing training. I just want to make sure that that training also includes maybe how to interact with the residents that are calling about. The priority three calls are the quality of life calls, because some of the concerns that we get sometimes from residents is that if
Speaker 9: they're case that they're calling on isn't a priority one call that maybe, you know, they get a dismissive tone or something like that. I just want to make sure that every resident feels heard and that that training includes that type of education.
Speaker 7: Yeah, totally. Totally agree. Councilmember, if you recall that the Public Safety Committee meeting a couple of months ago, we talked about, you know, what residents should expect when they call and what they should expect from our dispatchers. And one of the primary things is that every call is important and the residents should feel that way and assure
Speaker 7: residents that help will be on the way for their calls, the way that they're prioritized. So we don't make that distinction in that regard. They're all important to us. We really appreciate, Councilmember, your support of the annual Tsunami Evacuation Walk and Resource Fair.
Speaker 7: It's growing every year in size and scope. And we think that's and that's an important community event that you support and that we try to support with you.
Speaker 9: Of course, it's our pleasure to do so. And and a huge kudos to a nine on one operator. So I ask that question not because I've identified any opportunities for improvement, because having worked with Commander Herzog, he's really good at when residents would say, well, I called 911 and they said, blah, blah, blah.
Speaker 9: He would pull the tape and send it. And sure enough, there were some factual inaccuracies in some of the way that the phone calls were reported. And in every single time that I had the opportunity to listen to those calls, it was always the dispatchers who were very respectful and frankly, often abused by people for no apparent
Speaker 9: reason. And I just think they do a really great job of standing their ground, but also being very empathetic. So thank you.
Speaker 3: They? Excuse me.
Speaker 8: Okay, you guys, I just woke up. Okay. This is mango units.
Speaker 6: Thank you. Knowing that I have the pleasure to serve on Budget Oversight Committee, I'll hold back some of my questions. And I also think that there are so many of you here today that are here for future agenda items.
Speaker 6: And while the budget is the most exciting thing in most of our lives, I know that you have other important matters. So I'm going to get to the meat and potatoes of my quick questions. I appreciate the work of our fire department.
Speaker 6: I really appreciate going over the budget in detail, and I don't have any questions for you at this time. My questions are really going to be with the police department at this time. So first, I want to compliment you and the T.I department for the new platform of tracking crimes.
Speaker 6: I think that this has been a significant contribution to the community. I want to give a special thank you to Commander Herzog, who has since moved on from the East Division. He recognized the number of individuals in our communities that used to use the crime report tracking website and the major setbacks that it had.
Speaker 6: He took their input and worked hand in hand with community members who would identify specific inaccuracies on the website to try to identify as we moved into this new system, what caused those inaccuracies. And I think that accurate, important, accurate, transparent data for the community to know and be able to see their own crime stats is important
Speaker 6: in communities taking ownership and making those calls when they see something that is suspicious. However, we've had some challenges with the Go Language P.D. app. I appreciate the Ericsson for getting that back online. As soon as our neighborhood association said that it was down.
Speaker 6: It is back up and running tonight. I really, really appreciate the ability for a community member to give their own police report. However, when we talk about adding non sworn to do that, I have some concerns in terms of costs and training.
Speaker 6: And so I'll bring back up what I brought up four years ago and three years ago and then I kind of gave up on for a while, but I'm back at it. We have 48 police officers scheduled to retire this year.
Speaker 6: We are we instituting a reserve program where they could come back to the city in a reserve capacity. Knowing and understanding the knowledge and information that they have from their years on the force where they could potentially take some of these community service officer.
Speaker 6: Non-emergency. Priority three. Focused. Immediate. The information on the new pilot program with notes on Councilwoman Mongo.
Speaker 5: We actually have several police officers who have retired and have become reserve officers now in our reserve program. They're slated to work. I want to say it's 10 hours a month and some special events because it's a volunteer assignment.
Speaker 5: Mm hmm. Not to me. Not too many people are going to volunteer to go out and become a report card. So that's a little bit of a challenge. So that's why we wanted to try this program. Again, we're just giving it a shot, see what works.
Speaker 5: We're open to any option that would reduce the police officers workload and have them do more priority type work.
Speaker 6: How many reserves do we currently have?
Speaker 5: Sorry about that. I'd have to get back to you on that. I want to say it's in the range of about 25 or 30.
Speaker 6: So I will ask that our Long Beach police officers who are considering retirement in the next 12 months or have retired over the last 12 months, I think in the next 24 months we have upwards of I don't even want to say eligible because it would scare us the numbers, but I would guess we've been averaging somewhere
Speaker 6: between 30 and 40 to 50 a year. And so I would strongly encourage all of those reserves to do that. And then I would also encourage us to look at an opportunity where, in addition to your volunteer hours, other reserve agencies, after you meet your minimum requirements of your 10 hours, you can be on an hourly paid
Speaker 6: position, which is at a significant reduction from what an hourly full timer would cost because they're already receiving their pension and they're already retired. They have to keep under their 960 hours unless they get an exemption depending on the agency from was ERA or I can't remember the acronym is for LAPD.
Speaker 6: But I hope that we will sit down and explore this as a opportunity because the ability for us to keep those individuals, so many of them are changing agencies and going back to work full time. And we just are missing out on that experience.
Speaker 6: They know the streets, they know the communities, they know the neighborhoods, they know the trends. Which leads me to my second question. I'm the big the. Investigations, Sergeant. Is it specifically burglary? I know Councilman Price mentioned a couple of different areas that it could have been in, but I don't think I heard what specific section the downgraded
Speaker 6: sergeant was coming from.
Speaker 5: Burglary.
Speaker 6: It is burglary. Okay. And is that an area where. We are caught up or behind in those investigations. I know that we have backlogs in lots of areas.
Speaker 5: We have backlogs in all of our investigative units.
Speaker 6: So that would concern me. I know that we want to clear these investigations because the sooner we get these individuals in jail, the better chance we have of less victimization. So I look forward to working with you and your department on what those opportunities are.
Speaker 6: I really just can't stress enough what a great outcome reserve programs have been, including you as our police chief, who started as a reserve. And I'm so proud of that and and the work that you did and and how you've led our department over these last few years.
Speaker 6: And so I hope that at least it's something that we can consider over the next several weeks, because 25 reserve officers I know that we had a a staff member in your office who ended up retiring, who was working on building that back up.
Speaker 6: And we had regular meetings. But as that staffing change happens, I know it's challenging. And so anything I can do to help and work with you and the team, I just feel so passionately that keeping these individuals with that level of experience on the team is so important.
Speaker 6: And with that, I will pass it off to the next council member, since I know it's a long meeting.
Speaker 8: Thank you. Thank you. Next Miss Universe. So thank you.
Speaker 4: My little lighthouse. I can't tell if it's on or off. Thank you. Have a very few. I'm not very. If you have very little to say. I think it's a great budget and it's wonderful. And I think that thanks to the citizens of Long Beach, they helped us basically get this budget that we have right now that
Speaker 4: we can really implement a lot of our programs and re and reintroduce others like my my colleague, Councilmember Mungo, who had no questions for fire. I do. And I had no questions from for PD budget a little bit.
Speaker 4: And I have just one for the master of disaster.
Speaker 5: In terms of fire, you didn't mention anything.
Speaker 4: About the research program, the Community Emergency Response Team. I was wondering, is that still in effect or I know we were challenged of a year ago or a couple of years back. I'm getting some funding for some emergency kits or some igloos for to store some emergency equipment.
Speaker 4: What's the status of that?
Speaker 5: Mr. Vice Mayor, Councilmembers Councilmember Urunga Yes. The program is still very much active. In fact, this past year we trained 155 additional adults in in basic cert programs. This program has has grown beyond just cert now. And we're now we're doing teenage cert and we do Spanish language cert classes.
Speaker 5: And the program is started to grow throughout the city. Jake Heflin, as you guys you guys all know Jake Heflin, he is our program manager for Year Program and it's thriving, doing very well. And this past week, I'm happy to report that we've got a number of young men and women in our community that come from challenged
Speaker 5: backgrounds throughout the community. And all sorts of different situations have been put into what we're calling a fire core program. And they've gone out to the fire stations. They're riding along, they're getting firsthand experience on what it's like to be with the fire, the fire department and firefighters on a daily basis.
Speaker 5: But each one of those young men and women teenagers went through a 24 hour training class before we let them go right along with our firefighters. So, yes, the program is functioning at a high level. It's thriving, continuing to grow, and we anticipate it will continue to grow in popularity for years to come.
Speaker 4: That's that's great to hear because I know it's a very important community benefit that we have out there. And it really gets our our members of the community engaged with the city in terms of disaster preparedness and and being able to provide emergency response when we need it, which is a good segue way to my next question
Speaker 4: . A lot of us were already a lot of the questions that I had there was that we're asked by our customer representative. Thank you for being so astute with a lot of your questions regarding disaster preparedness. We great that one.
Speaker 4: The one aspect of your presentation that stood out to me was the cross training of the dispatchers. Could you go into a little bit more detail in terms of what does cross training entail in regards to their their performing their their jobs as dispatchers currently?
Speaker 7: Thank you, Councilmember. Currently, we have co-located dispatchers, police and Fire Hall located on the second floor of the Emergency Communications Operations Center and have been co-located with similar skill sets since that building was erected about 15 years ago.
Speaker 7: We've always identified. The potential to create some economies and skills as well as to be able to provide additional resources when we have large scale incidents that occur in the city, like a major fire, like the Paradise Gardens fire that we experienced a couple of years ago, or like some of the police activities that we've also experienced
Speaker 7: . So these are very similar disciplines. Staff are all accustomed to talking to telephone and doing radio work, some in code, some not in code. But we've had success with the dispatchers that we've been able to put through the training course.
Speaker 7: As I said, it provides a force multiplier for us when we have a large event. Our challenge in the cross training program is our need to continue is our need to answer all of the phone calls that we have as they're coming in.
Speaker 7: So an analogy that I use quite often is we have to keep this plane flying while we're trying to build another wing, and our priority is to keep the plane from flying. So we spend most of our time just bringing in new dispatchers, training them in one or the other, discipline, police or fire.
Speaker 7: And then as time and resources permit, then we go through some training on a cross-training program with other dispatchers. So we're about 20% of our dispatchers that have completed the training. They go back and forth between the two centers.
Speaker 7: If there's an influx of calls on one side, we will bring some cross training dispatchers in to assist as opposed to calling dispatchers from home to come in. So we have a much quicker response and it has paid dividends for us.
Speaker 7: Our priority, though, is, as I said, reducing overtime by bringing in by training dispatchers continuously on one discipline or another.
Speaker 3: Okay.
Speaker 4: Yeah, that's what I figured that cross-training was included because I would recall that there were actually two two sites, one for a fire in another location and one for police, which was down here in the basement of City Hall once upon a time.
Speaker 4: And so now with the the EOC establish out there, Redondo, it it creates a great opportunity to have these these two services put together. And the cross training is a is of course, a one of those benefits that the community would would greatly benefit from because of the level of service that would be expanded.
Speaker 4: So that's what I have. Mace Mary, you can wake up now.
Speaker 5: Thank you for the visit.
Speaker 8: You guys were losing our audience.
Speaker 3: You must answer.
Speaker 8: Mrs. Pierce.
Speaker 3: Here.
Speaker 6: My turn. Great.
Speaker 1: Oh, excuse me.
Speaker 6: Well, I want to say what a great budget it is. I think that the staff has done a fantastic job. And when I sat down and looked at it on the first day, I just kind of sat with it because it is such a different budget than the first budget that I was able to participate in passing
Speaker 6: . And so I just want to give a congratulations to all the staff that's worked really hard on this. I'm going to go the opposite direction. So let's talk about disaster preparedness. I want to first say how great it has been to work with your office.
Speaker 6: We have done some fantastic things. We've done some Facebook Live videos with your team, or we came in and did one around earthquakes and then we went to the aquarium and talked about tsunamis. And so my goal is hopefully to do one of those quarterly with your office and also with fire and PD.
Speaker 6: And so I just want to thank you for being willing to think outside the box and having your team like they come in with everything. So when we did the one for the earthquake, she brought in a whole box of goodies to show everybody all the little bitty things that you can do to make a difference that
Speaker 6: now my house is finally disaster ready. So I want to thank you for that. I did want to ask my staff, did the active shooter training in the main library last year, do you have plans for that training again in the next year?
Speaker 7: Thank you, council member. We appreciate your staff outreach to us to do some Facebook Live. We think, you know, as many other departments utilizing social media really helps us to get our message out. And especially in the area like disaster preparedness, where people don't really think about it much until something happens and at that point it's too
Speaker 7: late. So it's great that we able to get out in front. And so we appreciate your participation there. Yes. Last year we did active shooter training with every department in the city. We did it with all of the council officers.
Speaker 7: We did it with the ranchos, with the with the museums. And we continue to offer those services to city departments that need it, council officers, turnover and staff. And we're happy to come back out and do those trainings.
Speaker 6: Wonderful. I have a hole about a three new people on my staff and I've got seven. A new intern. So I think we'll be calling you soon. I did have one other question. The current roles of the administration, bureau managers and disaster preparedness manager positions.
Speaker 6: What will change with them with the title change?
Speaker 7: Yeah, you know that that nothing will change with the title change. The title change better reflects the the magnitude of the job as opposed from an officer to a manager. But with our staff, we have the same we have the same responsibilities and administration as other departments have, sometimes on a smaller basis in some areas, sometimes greater
Speaker 7: in some other areas. And so we are really, really fortunate that through a recruitment process, we were able to identify Diane Brown, had previous experience with the city, could hit the ground running and kept us all of our recruitment.
Speaker 7: Everything stayed on track.
Speaker 6: So great. Okay. I think that that's pretty much it will be outreaching again, like I said, to do a couple more activities with with your office and just really appreciate your efforts. And I am going to ask my staff that at the end of each of our signatures that we add to download the alert app on their
Speaker 6: phones. And it did take me a while when I tried to do it, I couldn't multitask and do it, which I'm a pro at multitasking. So it took me a minute, but we're going to add that to the end of our signatures.
Speaker 6: And maybe if we could do that for the entire city, that might be a great step to get awareness out about that. Thank you very much. Okay. Let's go to let's see Chief Luna. I have several questions on PD and I'm going to try not to duplicate those that have already come up.
Speaker 6: And before I begin, I want to say when we looked at the budget and I saw the added quality of life officers, the bike officers, I was elated in my district where we have a it's a denser district than parts of the east side.
Speaker 6: We've had many requests, particularly in our business improvement district, for bike officers that are able to be more nimble. And so I if you could walk through for me where the bike officers will be, I see some metro, but what is the ability to have them in our beds, like the Dhaba Fourth Street and our beaches?
Speaker 6: It seems like an appropriate use on our beaches outside of the the trucks that we have. Yeah.
Speaker 5: Councilmember Pearce, the concept or the vision that we have for this rapid bicycle response team that's proposed is we wanted to get one sergeant and five police officers really available to the entire city. It would not be for just one area.
Speaker 5: The concept would be is that we put them on some type of whether it's a bicycle, motocross bicycle, put.
Speaker 6: Them on scooters.
Speaker 5: No scooters, no scooters, less DC he says yes, but we have some significant challenges throughout the city with not our homeless population but the criminals within the homeless population. And as most of you can attest to, they're on the beaches, in the flood controls, places that are very difficult for a police car to get into.
Speaker 5: So when this team gets put together, if it if it goes through, they'll figure out the type of vehicles to get into those areas. Their task would be to focus on the high frequency offenders, the people with extensive criminal histories that we see out on our streets within that population and the significant mentally ill.
Speaker 5: So that team would focus on that group and we believe it would reduce the numbers of crimes that are occurring within that population that is increasing our overall index crime, especially in the aggravated assault categories. We are having multiple incidences where the individuals I've described to you are either the suspects or the victims.
Speaker 5: This team can get to them and we believe would have an impact. But whatever the problems are anywhere in the city, that's where they would go.
Speaker 3: Great.
Speaker 6: Okay, let's see. And then I had a question on the quality of life officers. I know with the Hart team, you know, there's only so much that they can do with a quality of life officer. Do they have the ability to transport or do they have to call in somebody else if they have a situation where they
Speaker 6: need to take someone to the hospital or something like that.
Speaker 5: They transport themselves.
Speaker 6: They can.
Speaker 5: Yes, great. They do. And they do often.
Speaker 6: Okay. And I wanted to to talk about the community policing model. I remember my first budget, we talked about this and it was like we just don't have the capacity. We don't have the capacity to even talk about getting out of our cars and playing games with the community members.
Speaker 6: So I'm really happy to hear your comments tonight about that. And just wanted to highlight it's great to be chipping away and adding more officers each year to get us closer to that to that goal.
Speaker 5: If you follow us on social media, hopefully you do. You'll see a lot of our officers engaging, getting out of their cars, whether it's parks, neighborhoods. I'm hoping that through the clerk's office, they give you all the capes that we handed out on National.
Speaker 6: We've got capes.
Speaker 5: Yeah. And that's something our officers are doing every day, every night and really, really building relationships out there consistently.
Speaker 6: Great. Thank you for that. And following that question on community policing, what is the standard for keeping officers within their beat? How long do we typically shift somebody around or keep them.
Speaker 5: In patrol calls for service. It is currently a six month deployment. The officers get to choose based on seniority division shift days off and again, that's based on seniority. Some end up staying a lot longer than six months because they like where they work, but it gives people the opportunity to move around the city and do some
Speaker 5: different things.
Speaker 6: So is there I know that in having some conversations with other cities and other jurisdictions where they have attempted to have people in the same community for two years or three years and that same area. So they're able to build that trust with with that population and really they're able to outreach them and build trust and not
Speaker 6: having to rebuild trust every six months. Is there any I mean, I'm not telling you how to do your job. And same thing with Susie Councilmember Price. You know, some advice on how do we continue to build that trust within our communities.
Speaker 6: Is there anything else keeping us from extending that time or encouraging people to stay longer?
Speaker 5: But it is something that we listen to. We look at best practices, not only in the region, around us, in the state and the entire country. And those are things that we assess. Each patrol division has what we call police resource officers, and they're there a little bit longer, depending on if there's movement, opportunity for promotion or
Speaker 5: opportunities for another bureau. But this is something that we believe works here for our city. It it works for our employees, but we're constantly reevaluating it to see if if we're having challenges in building trust in certain neighborhoods.
Speaker 5: We believe at this time this six month deployment is working for us, but we're never stuck in our ways. We always look at best practices.
Speaker 6: Okay. Thank you for that. And then you mentioned that we're running a lot on over time. I think I had a brief conversation with you in regards and maybe financial management can help us understand. I understand that the Tidelands funds could be used to pay for overtime in the Tidelands area.
Speaker 6: Is that something that one what would that look like and to is that something that would help? PD Particularly in our Entertainment Convention Center, I mean, the beach zone there, we I know we have a lot of challenges right there in our marina.
Speaker 6: So if you could walk through what that would look like using Tidelands funds for PD overtime.
Speaker 5: I'll start off and then if you need to add to that financial wizard yourself.
Speaker 3: However.
Speaker 5: We currently do use overtime from Tidelands to do exactly what you just described, and we've been doing that successfully. Generally, we get the support not only from all of you, but the city manager's office and financial management to be flexible in regards to retrieving funding, overtime funding from different funds.
Speaker 5: And although it's welcomed and it's effective. I'm really concerned about our capacity right now in overtime employee wellness, psychological well-being, making sure our employees are spending time with their own families so they are more productive at work. So those are all things we have to fine balance with.
Speaker 5: And that's the thing I talked about earlier is if at one point over time is just not the way we're going to get this job done, I have to come back to this council and say we are beyond our capacity and we may need more staffing, structural staffing increases.
Speaker 6: And I mean, I've said many times that I don't necessarily support overtime with our PD because I understand how stressful your job is. And so having a department that's all working overtime leads could possibly lead to, you know, situations in the field that we could deter if we didn't have officers working overtime.
Speaker 6: So I think what would be helpful for me and maybe it could be in front of this council or not too from for on how many overtime hours we have and what would it look like to fill those with with FTEs instead would be kind of helpful I think for us to understand, not necessarily in this budget
Speaker 6: cycle, but for the next year for me to understand would be helpful. Did Financial have anything else to add?
Speaker 5: I believe that the police chief is correct that we are already using the overtime from Tidelands, but we will.
Speaker 4: Verify that and get back to you.
Speaker 6: I think that we are okay. And then one to last things for PD. I think that this morning we would we sent you an email, but I did go to a community meeting last night and I don't mean to put you on the spot, but one of the challenges that I've had in my district is that we
Speaker 6: have transients or folks that are on drugs have a situation where they get violent or physical or cause a situation with another resident they call PD. And the gentleman last night I asked him to call to make sure that residents know that if they're not happy with the situation that they had, that they need to call and
Speaker 6: talk to a supervisor in PD. So number one two is that when we have situations like having PD come out and they said we want to file a charge against this person, this homeless person that attacked me or whatever, that sometimes the officers will say, well, why do you want to do that?
Speaker 6: There's nothing we can really do. And that they feel. I've had three situations the last two months where they said they let the person walk away and the officer was said that they were on drugs or they were high.
Speaker 6: And so that's what we're grappling with with the beach challenge. And so how can we help knowing that we don't have room in our jails, knowing about Prop 47, what is a best practice for our constituents to understand and what they need to do whenever they do call police and they feel like they've been in a poor
Speaker 6: situation?
Speaker 5: To let us know. I need dates and times. Yeah. If. If somebody alleges that one of our officers responded to the scene of an incident and they didn't perform their duties. I need to know. I need to follow up.
Speaker 5: Many times we get those type of allegations. Somebody stated it earlier. We'll check with our communications center. Everything's taped. And if I've learned anything in the last three years of my career is there's two sides, every story. So we get both sides and we figure out what happened.
Speaker 5: And many times people do get frustrated because they call the police. And when we get out there, we find that no crime has been committed. And and obviously, you know, there's sometimes we can do something. But taking a crime report, you don't take one unless a crime was committed.
Speaker 5: But it's still our obligation to explain to somebody what what we're doing and why and explain from that perspective. And we have great employees, but once in a while we do make a mistake. And if we do, we'll correct it.
Speaker 6: Great. Thank you for that night. That was exactly what I told community members last night. But I know that I had a room of 30 people that are watching at home right now. So I wanted to have it not just come from my mouth, but have it come from yours as well.
Speaker 6: And my very last thing for PD is back to the airport. I wanted to understand what is what are the staff that are there now and what would be the change, having them underneath you versus the airport? And is there a cost differential there?
Speaker 5: There is some cost differential for the exact numbers. I would need some assistance from financial management there. But in regards to the responsibilities being under the police department, it just completely changes the dynamics. Our training standards, our expectations are just very much different than what they've had in the past.
Speaker 5: And that's not to say I mean, it's a great group of people. They've been doing a good job. We just believe being in our chain of command, they would do that that much better and they would perform. From a safety perspective, making the airport a lot safer than it is now.
Speaker 6: Can you. Has there been a situation or something that's happened that's been a red flag or is it just trying to create a different atmosphere?
Speaker 5: A little of both.
Speaker 6: Okay. I'll leave it there and we can check in before the budget processes are final as well. So that's all I have for you, Chief Luna. A fun. I didn't promise a short one, so I've got a fire next.
Speaker 6: I just want to say with fire, I'm extremely happy that in the last budget we were able to make the Hart team structural. They were adding a second Hart team. I love that we're adding 17, you know, crossing fingers.
Speaker 6: So I have two big questions for you. One is, I know that the Hart team cannot transport, and I know that we've had conversations with Janice Hahn. We've talked at the state level. Is there can you give us a status update on where we are in giving the the Hart team the ability to to transport?
Speaker 5: Councilmember the that the intent of the program was to never have the Hart team transport. If you go back a couple of years when we first put the program in place as a pilot program, we were figuring it out.
Speaker 5: It proved to be very successful. So we, the council structurally funded it last year. One of the things I brought up during last year's budget presentation was ultimately down the road. We'd like to get to a place where we go to L.A. County Emergency Medical Services Agency and make that resource response capable under the 911.
Speaker 6: So that's what I meant, right?
Speaker 5: So it's not or it's not the the rig itself is not configured to transport first responders. So we are still in the process of debating and discussing how we should best approach that. I will tell you this. The Los Angeles County Emergency Medical Services Agency has already told us that adding another resource into the system is no
Speaker 5: problem, provided that has the right tools and equipment on it to meet the criteria that they call out. The question we're dealing with internally is the mission of the Hart team has proved to be very successful and we continue to grow the program and it's morphing.
Speaker 5: And the Joel Davis and Justin Berger, the two firefighter paramedics that are on that are teaching us really about what that program should be. And so we have to be very careful as we move forward not to take them away from their core mission.
Speaker 5: So I do like the idea of having them become a response capable unit that for surge protection or overflow or those situations where we're just out of resources, we could dispatch the Hart Unit, maybe an A and an ambulance to transport somebody, but we have to do it in a very measured and deliberate way to make sure
Speaker 5: that we are not on a daily basis taking them away from from their mission. Yeah, because their mission is important and they're making a difference on the things they're doing right now.
Speaker 6: That is very helpful. Thank you for that. And I love that they're doing the trainings with everybody. I'm just really thrilled with how you guys have taken it and really been measured and slow at moving it to make sure it's the right fit.
Speaker 6: Also, I think the same thing that Councilmember Susie Price mentioned planned small business has been a key part of my term and I think that as much as we can do to open those doors quicker and so adding an additional staff for that, the electronic system is wonderful.
Speaker 6: So that's really what I have for you guys. I'm just really thrilled. And oh, I did have one more question. I know that you guys have a list we don't like to talk about all the time. Downtown Long Beach is growing our residents by 3000, we have station one.
Speaker 6: We have some improvements around the Queen Mary. If you could just talk about fire for me in downtown and what that looks like not only with our new residential units, but we are adding potentially three new hotels. What does it look like to reassess kind of the needs for first responders and downtown.
Speaker 5: Councilmember Yes, that's an ongoing discussion we have in our Fire Prevention Bureau. And to your point, as I mentioned earlier, our fire prevention bureau, I think I'm biased, of course, but I think we're the best in the business around the state of California.
Speaker 5: We take a very proactive approach with our business community to get them to a yes where we want them to do what they. Want to do. We want them to do it in a safe and productive way. We constantly evaluate the downtown, the entire city, really.
Speaker 5: But the density in downtown is a constant topic of discussion and fire prevention. No more in in this area of the city are things that there's no no more sprawl. Now, we're going vertical with the density. Right instead of the response times have always been calculated in the fire service from the fire station to the address.
Speaker 5: But now we have to take into account not only to go from the fire station to the address, but you also have to go up 24 hours to get to wherever the issue may be.
Speaker 6: Or 34.
Speaker 5: In some cases. Yeah. So we are we are evaluating that scenario on a regular basis to make sure that we're doing what we can to augment our resource responses to the downtown environment. Secondarily, going back to fire prevention or Fire Prevention Bureau has been really good, as are all the developers that are coming to town and using
Speaker 5: the latest materials and the latest fire suppression systems really to try and minimize the incidence of a conflagration or fires happening. Not to say they won't happen and they're just meant to hold them in check until we get there.
Speaker 5: But our fire prevention, working in concert with the development community, working in concert with our operations folks, are talking about these things and crunching the numbers. And you said earlier our list, I believe you're referring to the list, the restoration priority list.
Speaker 5: And certainly if we ever got there, if we were fortunate enough to find the funding for Engine 17, we would certainly look very hard. Our next resource on that list is Engine one, two, one, or we would have have a discussion there.
Speaker 5: So we'll continue that discussion and do everything we can to minimize the potential impacts of density.
Speaker 6: Great. I want to thank all three of you for your leadership. Everybody on your teams. Rank and file people that do the hard work every single day. I appreciate you guys. I know sometimes we have tough public conversations and sometimes put each other in difficult situations, but know from the bottom of my heart, my constituents, we appreciate
Speaker 6: you guys and we're going to continue to push to make sure that we remain the best that we can be and just really. Thank you.
Speaker 8: Thank you. Congressman Soprano.
Speaker 2: Thank you. My comments will be very brief. I just have one question. But to paraphrase Reggie Harrison, we've got to keep this council meeting flying and I'm afraid the wings might fall off so long. So no questions for the director of disaster preparedness or Police Chief Luna.
Speaker 2: But Chief Theresa, you probably want to know the topic I want to bring up here, and that's Engine ten. You're supposed to be shocked. Okay.
Speaker 5: Now, actually, the first image you had in your.
Speaker 2: Presentation was a photograph of Engine ten, but it was sitting out in front of Station 17. And that just struck me because.
Speaker 5: Engine ten occupied Station 17, while Station ten was.
Speaker 2: Being remodeled and you had the same thing for Engine 22 was that 17 while Station 22 is being remodeled. So I just realized since we've had Engine 17 and mothballs, Station 17, it's kind of been the Airbnb of the Language Fire Department.
Speaker 5: So I'm really looking forward to.
Speaker 2: The restoration of Engine 17, so it won't have that distinction anymore. The one question I do have, Chief, is we asked this of you a couple of years ago. Once, if this council pulls the trigger on this restoration, how long would it take you to get that engine company in service?
Speaker 2: Would it be a matter of hours, days or weeks?
Speaker 5: I can't remember the I will give you the standard response. I tell every every one of our our council members and our mayor. If you ask how long it would take me to turn the resource on in town, I can have it in service tomorrow morning at 8 a.m..
Speaker 5: But the reality is that the smart reality would be for us probably after the first of the year, so we can plan for it. We'll have another academy that will graduate and we won't have the staffing issues that we might have if we turned it on tomorrow.
Speaker 5: So we'd give us a little bit of time to get it up and going. But functionally, we're uniquely well positioned that we can establish a response profile anywhere in the city very, very quickly. But I would say probably January 1st would be a time that we would shoot for to make it an effective transition.
Speaker 2: Okay. Thank you. Great to have you all tonight.
Speaker 8: Thanks you through, Mr. Zuber. No. Councilman Salvador.
Speaker 3: I'm okay.
Speaker 8: Councilman Richardson.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Councilman. Vice Mayor. Andrews. A couple of things. So first, having seen a number of budgets, it's a good budget. It's a budget that doesn't require a bunch of scrutiny, but rather, I think, you know, this is a budget that allows us to kind of imagine vision, what the future looks like, and that's really refreshing.
Speaker 2: So first Chief Tory, so I noticed you mentioned a challenge for you was increasing diversity in the department and and I know that that's been a commitment of yours since you've become chief. I've seen the evidence, but I think it's great that you will step up and actually acknowledge that we have to do more.
Speaker 2: And I've heard the same from the rank and file. So what are some of the tactics you envision sort of deploying as you ramp up for this next academy? Well, Councilmember.
Speaker 5: The question for US centers, not so much about the command staff. My teams will or our intent to diversify the organization when we have the opportunity to do that. Well, what we want to focus on is we are literally only as good as the people who show up to take our exam or the people who end up
Speaker 5: on our list. Right. The list that we get from civil services eligible, that's that's what we select from. So we want to we want to take it a step farther. We want to we want to actually get into that how that list is created.
Speaker 5: How are these people being provided the opportunity or the knowledge that the opportunity exists for them? And what are we doing as an organization, a fire department? And I'll give Candace in civil service a lot of credit. She wants to partner with us on this so that we we can we can create new modes and methods of
Speaker 5: actually getting these people in our community that represent our community to come take this exam and be successful in the process. So we're fortunate we have a management assistant that's going to be rotated through fire a little bit later on into the year.
Speaker 5: And we believe we're going to we're going to hand her the keys, really. And we believe that she's going to produce a really deep dove to figure out where those issues are and and really set us on a course that we can change some things.
Speaker 5: And I just want to say this. I've said this for years, but for me, as the fire chief in the city, diversity is not a numbers game, it's an inclusion game. So I want to make sure that we're creating a safe and inclusive environment for anybody in our community that wants to become a firefighter.
Speaker 5: And that at that point, we're also providing them all the opportunities they need to be successful. So I think if we look at it from a pure numbers standpoint, we're missing the opportunity to actually create an inclusive, diverse workforce.
Speaker 5: And that's what we want to focus on.
Speaker 2: I enjoy that. You use the words inclusive and diverse and and I agree they're more than buzzwords, I think is the recipe for success. If you see the the trend line of the demographics of our city and we just saw another agency in Metro, they embrace this early and they're thriving, successful.
Speaker 2: I think we should play to our strengths. And in my opinion, that means when you get this management assistant less and less, engage Lumbee City College a bit more. I think, you know, there's an there's you know, there's real opportunities for us to, you know, continue to develop a real pipeline leveraging lobby, City College.
Speaker 2: And it will help our enrollment at the college, but also allow us to better engage the community because we don't have to do this alone. We have this apparatus here that we need to utilize more. So that's just a recommendation.
Speaker 2: And then and also, you know, this fall, we should receive a report from policy link on our economic inclusion strategies in a piece. There may be some some national best practices on how to engage or better engage the local community.
Speaker 2: So I look forward to sort of just playing with that, this concept with you a little bit over the course of the next year. I obviously support the restoration of 12. I mean, of 17 I saw the impact when 12 were restored.
Speaker 2: And, you know, I've said and I'll continue to say it, we saw three minute diminished cut in the response times in North Palm Beach. And, you know, the more resources put in the play, it supports better, stronger response times across the city.
Speaker 2: So you have my complete support there. Just a question on GMT. How does that come in? I know that you were in the process last budget, last few budgets on implementing that and getting the tablets and all that.
Speaker 2: How's that coming along? The GMT funding and process?
Speaker 5: Councilmember The GMT program is up and running. We submit an annual cost report to CMS's Center for Medicaid Services through the State of California. And we are I'm I'm trying to recall, but I believe we're budgeted and I think we're bringing it about a little over $1,000,000 million to.
Speaker 5: 1.1 $1.2 million a year into the system. So it's proving to be successful so.
Speaker 2: Far and there's still potential for that to increase. Right. Are we not artificially optimized there or what?
Speaker 5: Yes, sir. Currently we believe we are fully optimized at this point. There could be some changes that come through the GMD program in fiscal year 19 that could could provide us some different avenues for revenue out of that program.
Speaker 5: But it remains to be seen whether the federal government will change the guidelines.
Speaker 2: Thank you. Well, I'm pleased with the job that you guys are doing. And, you know, one thing I'll just I'll just offer not operations related, but our beautiful new station 12. When you take a look the landscaping a little bit, it's a I don't know if the drought or some sprinklers are broken, but looks like we're going
Speaker 2: to have a replace probably like two thirds of the plants that.
Speaker 5: That is that is super drought tolerant vegetation.
Speaker 2: All right. They're not that tolerant, then. Well, thanks a lot. Chief Lula, just you have a lot to be proud of. I'm glad to look at your accomplishments and as very visible work, particularly. I see you called out the diversion work, the lead diversion work on Long Beach Boulevard.
Speaker 2: And I know that that's grant funded and they're doing a fantastic job actually engaging with the residents in the businesses and they know the officer by name, but I know with grant funded. So when do we anticipate that grant to end?
Speaker 5: Two years from now.
Speaker 2: Two years. Okay. So I, you know, I'd like to think about. I know there's a lot of activity there in terms of like, you know, motel conversion, other work. I'd like to think of like a transition plan to set some goals on the, you know, on the planning side and on the development side for things we can
Speaker 2: tangible things we can see on that corridor when that program goes away. So. So we're well aware of what resources we have, which resources we don't have a lot of Beach Boulevard, and we could see some tangible improvement.
Speaker 2: And and in addition to that, and he's just come it's not really a question. Just just comments and thoughts. Um, I'm glad to see the quality of life officer deployed in North Long Beach. Are they going to be is the lead off is that that's more of this doing that right after the more.
Speaker 2: I believe it's more that.
Speaker 5: Officer Commander's been identified. Detectives is the one working on the crime that probably he was talking about.
Speaker 2: Look, some more is doing lead. So is this person are they going to work together because it's really the same corridor where you have the majority of the problems related to human trafficking and homelessness? Yes. Okay. So so that said, I want to I want to start a conversation with you this year.
Speaker 2: And it's just an idea, I mean, kicking around a talk with Councilman Austin about it and talk to some others, the idea is and it's not really a new idea, but I want to reintroduce it. But the idea is maybe look at the Focus on Zombies Boulevard or perhaps the new community center, Highland Park, and think about
Speaker 2: establishing a community policing center, which is essentially the new quality of life officer the staff from the lead program that's handling human trafficking, the resource officer and our business district security staff, and sort of having sort of a focal point.
Speaker 2: You know, we have the North Station at the Alamo, but we don't have anything in the actual nine or 805 zip code. And I think that's it could be interesting for us to explore that for a number of reasons.
Speaker 2: Number 190805 zip code is growing by population four times the rate of the citywide population growth statistic. And you know, with with these recent opportunities that we have, I think we should think about what that might look like.
Speaker 2: We think about that, Chief.
Speaker 5: Worth exploring.
Speaker 2: Okay. Well, quite an endorsement, but we'll look forward to continuing that conversation and look forward to continue that conversation. And but overall, this is a this is a good budget master disaster. Mr. Harrison, I got to tell you, you know, you're always I mean, you've come engage with our North Lambie's executive leadership, our leadership council.
Speaker 2: And, you know, you and your staff and the police dispatch have done a good job really addressing a lot of the concerns. I have no really no concerns and just encouragement that we want to continue the conversation we've had with the North Miami Beach community and your office.
Speaker 2: So thank you for your hard work and look forward to continuing to engage with you.
Speaker 7: Thank you.
Speaker 2: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Next up, we have Councilman Alston.
Speaker 7: Thank you. And I'm going to really be brief. I want to just just commend all of our public safety. I think the presentation was great. The budget is, I think, sound and one that I think takes into account all of our needs.
Speaker 7: Certainly we could have more officers and use more officers, more firefighters, more more resources. But I think we're we're moving in the right direction. And I commend city manager and the department heads, both chiefs, for for for putting together a sound budget.
Speaker 7: I do have a couple of questions. Number one, for emergency disaster preparedness. Mr. Harrison, in the the budget, it talks about key measures and the number of public safety dispatcher candidates process for recruitment. And I'm looking at a a decline from 2017 when you had 244.
Speaker 7: And then in FY 17. And here in Fy19, you have 150. Why is that? And can you talk about your recruitment and retention of dispatchers? Well, we are with that. We have the public safety dispatchers is one of only two other jobs in the city that has aa1 year probation.
Speaker 7: One being police, the other being fire and public safety dispatchers. We go through a process. It's a one year probationary process. So depending on where we are, we bring in candidates off of the off of the hiring list.
Speaker 7: And we populate our center with our training staff and then we go through a one year process. And so we have an elasticity of a certain amount of dispatchers that we can handle during a 12 month period of time.
Speaker 7: And so we're going to go through some ebbs and flow as we have, you know, we're staffed up, trainers have out there at capacity. So they can't take additional dispatchers off the off the list. It's really pretty much as simple as that.
Speaker 7: And then the job of a dispatcher, you know, we kind of describe it as multitasking on on steroids. It is a challenging job for many of the dispatchers. It's a rewarding job for all of the dispatchers. But it is a job that's detail oriented.
Speaker 7: It is a job that takes all of the concentration that an individual has. And it is a job that takes all of that 12 month probationary time to actually be able to master and graduate out of that program.
Speaker 7: And so how many dispatchers do we actually employ? We are budgeted for, I believe, 75 dispatchers. We did some reorganization last year in recognition of the cross training as an incentive to be able to pay those dispatcher that have completed cross training so that they could receive additional income with that skill.
Speaker 7: So we had to do some reorganization, as I recall, with about at 75, I believe, with what we have. I'm looking at 81 in emergency communications, but that's close. So so with that many people coming to training, I mean, how many folks are actually sticking with the department?
Speaker 7: It's a challenging it's a challenging job. Council member it really is an across the board, across the board nationwide. So it's not just an issue for for Long Beach. We will have on average a 40% graduation rate with our dispatchers for a variety of reasons, for a variety of reasons that people, you know, they they come in
Speaker 7: with their own concepts of what dispatching is all about. And, you know, and then they're then there's a certain reality that sets in in terms of what the job is. Dispatchers are really busy. They're moving from one station to another.
Speaker 7: The calls that they take, they paint a picture for first responders in the field. They can see visually because of the series of questions that they're asking, pretty much exactly what a first responder is going to see when they arrive on scene.
Speaker 7: And sometimes that experience is a little bit more reality than some people feel comfortable with. I thank you for explaining that. I really appreciate that. And I ask that question because oftentimes it's the support staff that don't get get recognized for for some of the really important work that they're doing.
Speaker 7: And so we appreciate those dispatchers as well. The next question I have is for Chief Luna, and I'm also looking at the support bureau numbers here. And while I'm looking at the the F y 18 FTE numbers, it looks like there's 256 at this point, five in the support bureau, and it moves up to 286.
Speaker 7: And I'm trying to figure out which is that is that the proposed move to bring the assessors from the airport into the Department Support Bureau.
Speaker 5: That would be the 27 assessors. It would also include the body pick up, the intended proposed body pick up from Metro. Metro Blue Line is under our support bureau. Okay.
Speaker 7: My last point is the great job. Then all the way around. I think the budget is sound. I would just influence upon Army Chief and commander in the North Division to keep the North Station open for 4 hours, if as much as possible, because that is a a resource that I know our residents out there truly, truly
Speaker 7: depend on. It's great to have a police station. You know, it's really frustrating when when people go to the police station and they can't make contact with an officer when the doors are closed and not open. And I know we rectified that work to to to have those those doors of that police station open of, you know
Speaker 7: , at least a certain amount of hours every day. But I would just ask that you you continue to focus on on making the public or keeping the North Station accessible to the public for for for those those type of calls and situations where where people really need to touch the PD for many years.
Speaker 7: And I'll just say this was before I took office. I think the police station was closed for several years and people there was a sign on the door and said, hey, you know, if you need to to talk to somebody, go downtown.
Speaker 7: Right. That's a that's a huge if convenient for anybody be is for anybody living in the north part of the city and for the resource to be there. I just want to emphasize that, you know, it's good to be able to make contact with what the public safety officer, the police officer for our public.
Speaker 7: So thank you very much. Looking forward to to another year of great public safety all the way around.
Speaker 3: Thank you, gentlemen.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. I do have some some comments and then a one suggestion by Senator Jeff. Sorry, I didn't see up there. Let me go to Vice Mayor Andrews first. You go first. I have your.
Speaker 8: Name of a mine so.
Speaker 1: That I see first of my.
Speaker 8: Yeah, I've been kind of sleeping on the job, so I'm glad you came back.
Speaker 3: Here and.
Speaker 8: We're back. Okay. First of all, I want to start out by saying, you know, I agree with councilwoman, you know, Price, that we do need to take a second look at the employees reduction because I'm very, very happy to see the quality of life, you know, for officers added to the West Division.
Speaker 8: You know, I'm looking forward to these officers, you know, coming to my monthly briefing, you know, and neither the police or the I need you know, I need the police or the fire budget. Did I see fireworks prevention, enforcement, you know, outreach.
Speaker 8: Notice that as a key service. And I did not see any specific line item for this. I know that the conversation about this has been a priority, and we want to do it. We want these efforts to be proactive as well as reactive.
Speaker 8: And I'm hoping is somewhere in the budget we have allocated funds, you know, for this issue, you know, and anyway, I think the South Division stations is doing a great job to keep up the good work, you guys.
Speaker 8: And for the last question, I, I will I will add any you know, I want to know what any of the airports, you know, as as as always, do they lose any authorities or rankings with the proposed budget change?
Speaker 5: Vice mayor? I don't believe so. I will double check and get back to you.
Speaker 8: Thank you, sir. Okay. In last, I'd like to leave this to Reggie. You know, I won't use that word because I know what a great job you guys are doing. But that's a prevention emergency communication. You know, I need a lot about you know, I've heard a lot and continue about the outreach and the social media information
Speaker 8: material and access to the deaf and the blind residents that we have. But what about those that first language? You know, if it's not English, are they reaching out to those communities as well?
Speaker 7: Yes, Vice me. I'm glad that you asked that question. We have we have all of our outreach material, which is all translated into the various languages that our language act requires. Additionally, we our emergency messages are quickly translated for our speech impaired vision impaired residents so that we send out American Sign Language videos almost simultaneous to the
Speaker 7: English language. This third party provider also provides Spanish language interpretations pretty quickly as well simultaneously. So we believe that on a countywide basis, the city of Long Beach is at the forefront in terms of that kind of outreach into those diverse neighborhoods.
Speaker 7: Not to say that there is more that we could do and we'd be happy to work with you and your district and some additional outreach. But in terms of getting messages out quickly and concise and consistent, we're able to accomplish that.
Speaker 8: I want to thank you for really recognizing that, because I have so much, you know, diversity in my area and, you know, in your team. You know, we realize it's key when people call 911, you know, are we having a mass emergency?
Speaker 8: I would like to be sure that all this information is reaching out to everyone. So many thank you guys for everything you do. And thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Vice Mayor. I want to I want to make some comments. And then I do have an ask of the Budget Oversight Committee at the end of the comments. I want to I want to thank, obviously, the staff for making their presentation.
Speaker 1: I've heard this presentation I was mentioning to Mr. Lester, I think many, many times it seems like ten or so as we've been developing the budget. And so I it's good to have it out for public comment. And I want to mention a few things, some of which were referred to earlier tonight by some of the councilmembers
Speaker 1: . In 2014, when when this council, as we sit up here, was formed, we had 803 police officers and 406 firefighters. The current budget proposal allocates the funding if four restorations are made to 851 police officers and 431 firefighters.
Speaker 1: So certainly an increase of both police and firefighters over the course of the last four years. The restorations up to now have included Engine eight and Belmont Shore Rescue 12 and North Long Beach, the Hart unit that we're talking about this year, Engine 17 and East Long Beach, the restoration of South Division, the creation of the new
Speaker 1: Metro Division as part of the Metro Blue Line, which we know was part of our Metro contract for new quality of life officers and a six person bike officer team, which is part of this year's budget in addition to the growing of these departments.
Speaker 1: We're also investing, of course, in infrastructure and technology as it relates to police and fire, and that includes modernizing the both of the police and fire academies. That's in this year's budget, the upgrading of Long Beach PD and fire technology, including radio and communication systems, the funding of body cameras, which was I think mentioned earlier by Councilwoman
Speaker 1: Price, and the purchasing of modernized cameras across the city as it relates to the COPS system, which is our camera. I don't know that that's the acronym, but it's our camera system that we have across the city. So these are some significant investments.
Speaker 1: And I want to thank the Council for for making all of these which were really we're really grateful of. I also want to mention that we are committed to all of these restorations as outlined in the proposals today.
Speaker 1: But one issue has come up. I mentioned this to Mr. West. I've been talking to some folks, and I want to make sure that this gets addressed. It's been mentioned actually a few times tonight. I know in the F 19 budget, we have the reduction of the one sergeant position that's going down to an officer position.
Speaker 1: We know that the position has been identified as a sergeant that's assigned to a burglary detail. That's right. Chief Luna. That's correct. That's correct. And we know from what I understand and just talking to a few of the members of our police team, this is a sergeant that's kind of responsible for vetting, assigning and prioritizing theft cases
Speaker 1: in the city. Correct.
Speaker 5: Burglary and theft, yes. Okay.
Speaker 1: And so I know that this is a busy section of the department. And I also know that part of this part of the proposal we have in front of us is to possibly combine the burglary detail with auto theft with auto theft auto under one, sergeant, is that correct?
Speaker 1: Yes. Okay. Thank you. So, you know, and again, in just and in the budget, a moving you know, it's it moves and evolves as we move along. So I'd like to request tonight that the Budget Oversight Committee take up the it take up this issue and not reduce.
Speaker 1: Police sergeant position to the officer position. I think others have shown interest in this already on the council tonight. And so if I can make that request to the Budget Oversight Committee as we move forward, I think that the position in this case should not be downgraded to an officer position.
Speaker 1: So I think we need to keep it as a sergeant. And so, Mr. Mango, I'll leave that to you and to the BBC. But that's something I think that we've heard is going to be important. And so with that, I want to close my comments on on police, fire and disaster preparedness and Councilman Mangle.
Speaker 1: Yet an additional comment.
Speaker 6: I just wanted to take a moment to think and recognize the number of budget staff that are here tonight. I know you were only at the the midway point before we get to see the most exciting budget that I believe in, which is the CIP budget.
Speaker 6: But I know it's a long night and I know months and months of work went into all of the preparation that each of you do to make this book a reality and to make it possible for these department heads to sit before us and and say the words that you wrote for them.
Speaker 6: So thank you so much.
Speaker 1: And then Miss Mango, you'll take your you and the committee will take a look at that position.
Speaker 6: Absolutely.
Speaker 1: Okay. Excellent. Good. Well, with that, I'm going to open it up. What we're going to do is we're only halfway through our budget presentation. We're skipping next. So I want to take public comment on this portion of the budget presentation, which is safety.
Speaker 1: So if you have a public comment on this on on the police, fire or disaster preparedness only, please come forward on this part of the budget. Yes, sir.
Speaker 2: Members of the Council, I'll be very brief.
Speaker 5: My name is Renee Castro.
Speaker 2: I'm director for community engagement at Century Village. Is that Cabrillo? Of course. We provide housing for 1500 formerly homeless individuals, over 700 veterans, 600 children.
Speaker 5: And of course, that kind of huge operation requires.
Speaker 2: The collaboration with police fire, of course, development services and of course, our Health and Human Services Department. But recently I will really.
Speaker 5: Highlight our partnership.
Speaker 2: With the Emergency Communications and Operation Center. ECAC really want to thank Reggie Harrison for the incredible training they.
Speaker 5: Did for all of our partners. We had over 15.
Speaker 2: Partners who went to the CAC and we had a training on 911 and dispatch and it was incredible. So just.
Speaker 5: Wanted to highlight Reggie.
Speaker 2: And all of his work. Thank you very much.
Speaker 1: Thank you very much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 5: Good evening. My name is Richard Suarez. I'm with the International Association.
Speaker 7: Of Machinists and Aerospace.
Speaker 5: Workers. I represent employees working in both the police department, the CISOs at the airport, and folks working at the Emergency Preparedness Department. I stand before you this evening because I believe that some information was shared with this council that does not reflect the accuracy of what we have out on the field.
Speaker 5: In the deepest department, we have approximately 18 trained fire folks and 30 trained police officers excuse me, police dispatchers. It was mentioned that about 20% of that number is cross utilized when in.
Speaker 2: Reality there's only one.
Speaker 5: Or two folks that can answer both the police and the fire phones and about five that can only answer the.
Speaker 2: Fire phone.
Speaker 5: So 20% is a figure that that's not realistic with the folks that are there. Now, in addition to that, we spoke about overtime and about stress on the job. These are the only folks in the entire city that the M.O. you excludes them from a free from duty period.
Speaker 5: Every employee in this city has an eight hour free from duty period at the negotiating table. Three years ago, the city would not agree to give that same level of relief to the men and women who.
Speaker 2: Answered 911 calls.
Speaker 5: For the last four and a half years since I've been here, there has been mandatory overtime in this department every single week. People are forced to work overtime every single week. So when we talk about reductions in cost, we have an issue here.
Speaker 5: The social situation at the at the airport is severe and grave. They the chief said that there will be no change in authority when in fact, their level one training, their post training has been taken away. They will no longer.
Speaker 2: Be post trained.
Speaker 5: They will keep their there and they realize that the time is short here. And I would invite to meet with each and every one of you in your offices. But perhaps Councilwoman Mungo, who has a experience in law enforcement, knows the importance of this.
Speaker 5: Level one training with the police department is attempting to do is to put them through a ten day home made training here in Long Beach, not send them to Rio Hondo, not send them to the police academy. None of that.
Speaker 5: And this is concerning on many levels. Right now we're speaking about 27 SOS. There aren't 27 SOS at the airport. There's less than half of that. There's 13 of them. And we have had these openings for years. So I believe that by design, there is an attempt not to staff properly.
Speaker 5: There's 13 men and women who protect this airport. There has been no deficiencies in the security detail. What they're proposing to do is to fill these positions up with police officers at a significantly higher cost than what an SSL makes a cop out, so makes about $30 an hour.
Speaker 5: Almost double for the top out, officer.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Thank you very much for source. We'll be happy to get together and chat about that. Yes, I trust you.
Speaker 4: Thank you, sir.
Speaker 5: Jim Foster, president of the Long Beach Police Officers Association. I come to thank you, Mr. Mayor, for your recommendation to take a second look at that sergeant position in burglary at your continued support of public safety for all of us.
Speaker 2: I also want to extend my thanks.
Speaker 5: To the Budget Oversight Committee, chaired by Councilwoman.
Speaker 2: Mangal and Councilwoman Pryce. Your questions today.
Speaker 5: This burglary.
Speaker 2: Position is the central node within the.
Speaker 5: Department where all of our property crime really filters through. This expert who manages all of that property crime throughout the city is the best advice giver to the upper leadership on how we should give our resources out to stop property crimes.
Speaker 5: So this this one position to me was very important to try to retain.
Speaker 2: To keep my employees who are working there properly managed.
Speaker 5: But I do appreciate.
Speaker 2: That's taking another look at that because I think somewhere in the budget we're going to be able to try to find the funding to keep this position. It really affects the entire city, not just a small portion. So thank you, sir.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Foster. And the next speaker? No. Oh, yes. Please come forward.
Speaker 2: Dave Shukla on file. I'd just like to thank the Mayor City Council for this budget. Specifically the emphasis on public safety and disaster and emergency preparedness. I recently was trained a couple of weekends ago at the fire department.
Speaker 2: It was a great experience.
Speaker 5: Very, very useful. And I look.
Speaker 2: Forward to not only continued support, but expansion along with diversion. Other programs for civilians can not only get skills but be of use in the storms to come.
Speaker 5: For next year, I'd love to see.
Speaker 2: More specifically about climate change. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. That concludes this part of the budget hearing. I want to thank everyone that spoke and police and to our police fire to that preparedness team. Thank you all. I know that this is a hefty week, but as a reminder, this is also seven almost 70% of our total budget.
Speaker 1: And so these questions and this discussion tonight is very important. So thank you. So we're going to go into our second half of the budget presentation tonight, which is on CHP, which is on infrastructure, which is I told them I told Mr. Beck and others this is my favorite presentation of the year when it relates to the
Speaker 1: budget. It's all about our streets and our park projects and our infrastructure improvements all across the city. And and again, a lot of great news as it relates to Missouri and our CHP program and everything that's in this presentation.
Speaker 1: And I would encourage the council to really kind of deep I mean, do a do a deep dove and take a look at all the great projects that are being proposed. And so thank you for that and we'll turn this over.
Speaker 1: Mr. West, did you have any opening comments before we turn this over to Mr. Beck?
Speaker 4: Yes, Mayor. This is a huge, huge undertaking. The Capital Improvement Project, a lot of time and energy has gone into this, and we want to review it with all of you. It includes measure A, it looks at the entire 50 square miles.
Speaker 4: And I can't say enough about the entire team on the presentation that you're going to see right now. So I am going to turn this over.
Speaker 5: To our public works director, Craig Beck.
Speaker 4: And his team to present the capital improvement program for fiscal year 19. Craig.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Pat. Good evening, Mayor. City council and community members viewing this presentation. We're here tonight to discuss the city's capital improvement program, sometimes called KIPP for short. It provides the city's infrastructure investment plan for the coming year.
Speaker 1: The following presentation will detail proposed funding for the design, construction and maintenance of citywide infrastructure, which is the building blocks for a great city. As you can see, the fiscal year 18 cap budget, which is this year, is comprised of different funding sources that equal about $96 million.
Speaker 1: These funds support many different projects and are organized in our recipe book in six different categories. As identified on this page. They are mobility, public facilities. Parks and recreation. Beaches and marinas. Airports and utilities. Some of the major accomplishments that we would like to highlight for this year is our new sixth Street Bike Boulevard, a very important
Speaker 1: East-West connection across the city. Our Admiral Kidd Artificial Turf Sports Field and the city decided to use safe caulk and sand fill as opposed to recycled tires. Our Rainbow Bridge at Seaside Way. This is a great connection between our Terrace Theater and Convention Center.
Speaker 1: A new Harvey Milk Park refresh, which continues to have other improvements happen and will conclude with a new outdoor office function and our ongoing citywide paving projects. So what is our investment plan for fiscal year 19? It's about $120 million.
Speaker 1: This represents a $24 million increase over the current year, and that's driven primarily by two significant changes. First, the water department is planning to invest $30 million into pipeline replacement projects for both sewer and potable water. That's a $14 million increase over what they've committed in fiscal year 18.
Speaker 1: And I also want to highlight that the city is receiving new transportation dollars from the SB one gas tax funding. That $8 million that we're going to get from SB one is going to support 11 new street projects in the city just in fiscal year 19.
Speaker 1: So how do we plan to spend that $120 million? You see the six different categories here. I'm going to go through each of them in more detail. And first, since I'm wearing my new blue tonight, I want to highlight mobility.
Speaker 1: And I really appreciate our partners from Metro being here this evening talking about all the wonderful projects that they're doing in the city. And those are just some of the high profile projects that they highlighted this evening. There's a number of different partnerships that the city is working on with Metro, and we look to continue many of
Speaker 1: the great things that we do. So how does a city approach mobility? We do something which is called a complete streets. So what we're looking at is what type of improvements need to happen, and we want to look at that in their entirety.
Speaker 1: So, for example, does a street need to have new curb ramps added or do trees need to be trimmed? Are there broken sidewalks it should be addressed? Or is the street part of the citywide bicycle master plan? A good example of this approach in how we build out new streets is Bellflower Boulevard.
Speaker 1: If you haven't driven on it recently, I encourage you to do so. Not only is there brand new paving on Bellflower, but we also addressed much needed sidewalk repair and added protected bike lanes as this is a key connection point for riders going to Cal State, Long Beach Go Beach.
Speaker 1: So this year, all in all, we've added about 17 miles of bicycle lanes and we're adding those for all residents 80 to 80. This further enhances the city's livability efforts to provide alternative to single occupancy vehicle trips. That's bad.
Speaker 1: So mobility, $51 million plan for fiscal year 19. There's three major corridor projects that we're going to engage, including Market Anaheim, which is a pedestrian safety corridor project, and Artesia, which is a Great Streets project that we're coordinating through Skaggs and our adjacent cities.
Speaker 1: We also continue our investment in repaving our dirt alleys. We were able to accomplish about 1.6 miles of paved dirt alleys in fiscal year 18, and we look to replicate that in 19. And we'll finish paving all dirt alleys in fiscal year 20.
Speaker 1: That's our plan. Lastly, staff is recommending that council look at adding money to sidewalks while we prioritized our traditional sidewalk investment for new curb ramps as specified in our accessibility settlement. We think it's also important to address path to travel and similar to the action that council took in fiscal year 18, where $1,000,000 is allocated for sidewalks
Speaker 1: and divided by need among the nine council districts. We're recommending that that happen again and actually increase that number to 2 million. Again, divided throughout all nine council districts by need. So I love to highlight this map. This is a great picture.
Speaker 1: This map shows the city's five year street investment plan. And in particular, I want to highlight the Green Street segments. So those Green Street segments are streets that have already been completed or that will be completed by the end of this year.
Speaker 1: And that's almost 50% of our planned work. Now, granted, many of these streets were slurry and we were able to get those down a little quicker. But it really represents the great investment that we're making and the great progress that we've made to date.
Speaker 1: Still, we have many important projects ahead. So this map here is showing our street investment plan for the next two years, fiscal year 19 and fiscal year 20. Last year, council asked for a forward looking snapshot and staff is trying to provide that, showing two years of planned street work.
Speaker 1: My goal next year when I bring CIP to this council is I'll provide a snapshot for three years of street work. That's what we're working towards as a team and we hope to deliver that to this council and the community.
Speaker 1: So I'd like to shift to public facilities. For public facilities, there is a plan to invest $16 million. This will further some of the key projects completed in fiscal year 18, including workplace privacy improvements at Fire Station seven and ten.
Speaker 1: Also upgrades to our Expo Community Center in Bixby Knolls. So fiscal year 19 will include work at our public safety buildings, at the Fire Department Training Center and the police department west substation. We're also identified a number of city libraries for new roofs to ensure that those facilities don't leak.
Speaker 1: Assuming we get some weather this coming winter and also major renovations for our north health facility in Halton Park, this is a complete redo of that facility. For Parks and Recreation. This category we see some of the, I'll say, fun projects that the community gets to enjoy.
Speaker 1: In Bixby Park there is a new dog park added this year. The red car greenbelt next to Colorado lagoon is a wonderful walking path with native plantings and this just happened recently. It was very exciting to see, but a signature themed playground was opened at Lo Cerritos Park and we have Vets Park, Drake Park and Whaley Park
Speaker 1: Playgrounds coming real soon, and we should be delivering those within the next 90 days. Priority projects for fiscal year 19 include the restoration of the Eldorado Duck Pond. This is a high priority project that we're glad we're able to get to.
Speaker 1: And also Davenport, what we're calling phase two, which is really the buildout and activation of the greenspace from the former landfill closure. So moving to beaches and marinas. Fiscal year 19, we're going to be able to address the junior lifeguard station at 55th place.
Speaker 1: Also, there's an exciting new concept for the Alamitos Beach concession stand, which we hope to bring the council within the next few months for approval to move forward. This will add to the fantastic amenities completed this year at Bayshore, which is the place to beat the heat this summer.
Speaker 1: So if you haven't been, you have to go to the new swim, dock and aquatic playground. It's an.
Speaker 3: Absolute hit.
Speaker 1: The airport will continue to invest in improvements for accessing the terminal building and also rehabilitation on some of its airfield runways. And lastly, again, utilities. There's many men and women who work in this city that do work every day, ensuring that our utilities are safe and function for all of our residents.
Speaker 1: And I want to again champion the work that the water departments do, planning to do to invest in their infrastructure. And we're also planning to do work for our storm pump station. This continues addressing some of the emergency upgrades that we need to do to ensure that we're safe when we have storm events.
Speaker 1: So that's the overarching copybook. But I wanted to delve a little bit deeper into measure. There's some great things happening with the measure of funds that the voters of this city approved. Hopefully, everyone is familiar with the Measure Reinvestment Plan and hopefully we've had an opportunity to actually visit the measure.
Speaker 1: The city's measure, a web page at Long Beach dot gov board slash measure a in there you will see this map and some details about what that investment plan means. So this is a snapshot of three years of measure.
Speaker 1: And it's amazing when you start thinking we are receiving $80 million towards infrastructure in just three years. I cannot emphasize the positive impact this has had to our cities.
Speaker 3: See IP.
Speaker 1: So kind of part of that five year investment strategy and infrastructure. This map is showing just the facility and park projects. So we've taken off the street layer and we wanted to highlight over 50 and park facility projects are identified as part of Measure a plan.
Speaker 1: And if you look closely, it's probably hard to tell on the screen. But if you look closely, there's 17 projects that are highlighted in green, which will be delivered by the end of this year. Again, we're making really good progress on our commitment to this community, and I look forward to continuing that.
Speaker 1: 19. So measure eight projects, new park projects. I mentioned El Dorado, Duck Pond and Davenport. I also want to highlight some upgrades to our sports courts at El Dorado, Low, Cerritos and Silverado. These are important recreation opportunities for many of our residents in the city.
Speaker 1: Measure also supports many facilities. Improvements to Alamitos and El Dorado libraries are planned for fiscal year 19 public safety buildings, as I mentioned. Also our animal care center and our health facilities. So back again to mobility projects are citywide.
Speaker 1: Investment in streets, sidewalks and alleys and bridges is very important. This council has made that commitment and you're seeing that continued with the investment that were planned for 19. And I mentioned the pump stations earlier. I want to transition a little bit and talk about the future.
Speaker 1: So while Measure is planned right now in the first three years to provide $80 million of its commitment towards infrastructure, staff has identified some additional resources. So during the city manager and mayor's budget presentation, there was a discussion about $55.3 million a future measure.
Speaker 1: A staff is proposing that $35 million of that be allocated to infrastructure. This would include 25 and a half million dollars to support the fire and police training facilities, $6.3 million for facility improvements based on priorities in the facility condition assessment.
Speaker 1: Also, an additional $2.3 million towards new park playgrounds to include a new signature themed playground and recreation park and also upgrades to playgrounds at Eldorado, Sycamore Grove, Cherry Park and Ramona Park. Staff is also recommending that of that $55 million, 20.3 million be allocated towards public safety budgets.
Speaker 1: This would help support additional PD and fire academy classes. Body worn cameras, which were talked about in the previous presentation and other investments. Investment in the city's infrastructure is driven by successful strategic planning, which starts with understanding the needs.
Speaker 1: This council supports smart investment strategies, including those identified in our pavement and alley management plans, which we will continue to update every two years. A new sidewalk assessment which is currently underway, and that's going to create a full GIS structure that will allow us to track all necessary improvements across the city.
Speaker 1: We're also working on a facility facility condition assessment, which will help us all prioritize where the most critical needs exist and are over 130 facilities across the city. Stormwater Masterplan is also important. While we've looked at our pump stations in 2015 and we have emergency work identified that we're moving forward to address.
Speaker 1: We do need to work to identify funding to understand exactly what our stormwater system needs. There's a number of deferred maintenance in our pipelines and we look forward to identifying future strategic funding for that purpose. The proposed Fiscal Year 19 Capital Improvement Plan provides a balanced approach in addressing much needed maintenance and new amenities, keeping Long Beach
Speaker 1: a great place to live, work and play. Thank you for your time and I'm available to address Council's questions. Thank you, Mr. Beck. I'm going to start with Councilwoman Pryce.
Speaker 9: Thank you. Excellent presentation. Mr. Beck, we all enjoy your announcer voice. The it's just rolls off so naturally. But I just really wanted to thank you and your team. It's been a tremendous amount of effort on your part to, you know, efficiently utilize the incoming revenue in a way that is balanced and across the entire city.
Speaker 9: And I personally appreciate that and I thank you and your team for that. I wanted to ask about libraries. I know a lot of our libraries have critical needs. We're trying to encourage people to go to libraries. We're trying to make sure that they remain relevant part of the community.
Speaker 9: And so I think taking a hard look at where we can improve our library facilities to modernize them a little bit would be really great, especially since we're going to have a beautiful modern library here at Main. And we want to make sure that that spirit and the welcoming nature of that is shared throughout.
Speaker 9: So, you know, I know we have a lot of older buildings, if there's any, as we're thinking about roof improvements and things, if there's any design elements that we can utilize to make the spaces brighter, more open, things that can be done that are not as costly but perhaps would create a more inviting space.
Speaker 9: I think that would be really good. And I just wanted to kind of throw that out there as a suggestion if there's some efficiencies to be had because we're out there doing work anyway. I know we've been working with you on Bayshore and some opportunities there, but I'm sure many other libraries are in the same boat because
Speaker 9: they were built around the same time. So so that's really all I wanted to add. And I just wanted to thank both public works and PRM and all the city departments that have been involved in the implementation of a lot of these CIP projects.
Speaker 9: It's just been a fantastic year, I think. And again, I like to see that we spread the the benefits citywide so that every resident gets to see the benefits of the investment that they've made in the city. So thank you.
Speaker 1: This Councilmember Price, I would like to highlight a little bit on the and the libraries. While I didn't have it in my presentation, there is work ongoing in many of our libraries besides some of the maintenance issues we're looking at improving circulation desks and also adding hearing loops at many of our libraries.
Speaker 1: And I know that's an important topic for you. Thank you very much. Next up is Councilman Mungo.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. Beck. I really appreciate your presentation. As you know, this is my most exciting part of the budget. I want to echo your comments related to path of travel. As our city ages, it is of the utmost importance that our community is out and walking and to be able to walk our community path of travel
Speaker 6: is of the utmost importance. I appreciate the efforts to double what we put forward last year. I only know that it would only be better if we could get to four times where we are. Because I know that to get to the standard amounts we were at before the curb cuts would be 4 million.
Speaker 6: I also appreciate that within your requirements are many, many long term and big improvements. And while I am very excited about the number of additions and upgrades to our Park Playground equipment, I look forward to working with the Budget Oversight Committee over the next after the budget process, but more towards the winter months.
Speaker 6: On working through the three year plan and the breakout of those specific categories and where they could be. Because as we want to make sure there's a new park playground in every space of the city that's accessible to everyone and adjacent to any of the areas that have a lot of activity related to older siblings where the
Speaker 6: younger siblings can play. And so I appreciate the work that you've done on that as well. I appreciate working with your office on Creative Solutions. And so I know that not all of the things in the capital improvement projects like Storm and Sewer are sexy.
Speaker 6: I think that they're really important because as the rains do come, the work that you've done in stormwater facilities and the such have really made a considerable impact on the flooding in our neighborhoods, especially with the uneven pavement of the streets that haven't been graded in a long time.
Speaker 6: And so I know you're working through your street plan. You specifically mentioned the 11th Street projects and the gasoline tax. And so if that would be repealed, those would not be completed. Do you know the 11th Street projects off the top of your head?
Speaker 1: Councilman Romano I do not, but there was an item that this council approved they had to pass originally, right? Yeah. So they're all listed on that. And yes, you are correct, those 11th Street projects would go away if the SB one tax is repealed.
Speaker 6: I just think it's important whether you're for or against it. I just think it's important that you know what you're voting on specifically. And so I know that I'll do my best to pull that too from four from before and actually with the council presentation, wasn't it the council presentation from before?
Speaker 6: And just so that people are aware because I get a lot of questions about that tax and I'm not always able to off the top of my head tell them which streets they know of that would be repaired and so those would not be repaired should that be repealed.
Speaker 6: And I think that's important for people to know. Thank you for all the work you've done. Great, great presentation. Best presentation in four years. So I'm excited about the new improvements.
Speaker 1: Think a councilwoman. And before I move on to Councilman Austin, I can just quickly respond. I think from what I remember correctly, well, there are a variety of highway improvements that are immediate SB one funded streets, the immediate SB one and largest project that gets funded is the entire reconstruction of PCH.
Speaker 1: That's from the entrance of of Long Beach on the on the east side, all the way to its exit in western in the west side of the city. So I know that's the that's the first project that the state has funded using SB one as far as major street project.
Speaker 1: And of course it will be many, many others. But that because that is a a state highway, I know that that is on the list on top of, of course, all the residential streets and everything else that will get funded through some of the local return dollars.
Speaker 1: Councilman Austin.
Speaker 7: Thank you. And this is a very encouraging presentation, CERP budget. I wouldn't say one of the the best that I've seen in my six years on the council and seven budgets. So kudos to our public works department and every department that has had anything to do with this.
Speaker 7: There are a couple of major art arteries in the north that are better called out here. Obviously, Market Street has been a high priority for my office to fix that. I mean, and many residents are sitting here and getting emails from residents watching the construction going on around the district and they're asking about Market Street.
Speaker 7: And so they've seen great improvements on Orange Avenue and and all around the district. But Market Street still is a street that is a priority. And I'm glad to see it's it's being funded and and we're close to getting some work done there as well as.
Speaker 7: Olmos Boulevard, I believe the Alamo is to one funded as well. Is that correct? Mr. Beck?
Speaker 1: That sounds correct. I don't have the list in front of me. I can get back to you.
Speaker 7: Well, I don't know if anybody mentioned it or asked the question, but what are the impacts of SB one? We do know that that is a funding source that was provided by the legislature after many years of work to to get that done.
Speaker 7: And, you know, there's there's some some efforts to try to repeal that on the ballot. Where would that be? And the repeal specifically, what would that mean in dollars in terms and in projects to the city of Long Beach right now?
Speaker 1: So we did receive a little the city did receive a little bit of money in this fiscal year, about two and a half million dollars from SB one, though those dollars have already been implemented into projects. In fact, we're currently working on a project in District three on the ATO that is SB one funded.
Speaker 1: There's a couple more in the city that we're working on. The one that I've highlighted in the CHP presentation, those 11 streets that this council adopted by resolution will be built with roughly $8 million that we anticipate receiving in fiscal year 19 from SB one.
Speaker 1: So if SB one was repealed, we would not receive $8 million and those streets would not get built out at this point in time. We've also put into our five year plan an additional $8 million in 20 and an additional $8 million in 21.
Speaker 1: So you can see that that would add up pretty quickly, 24 or $25 million in three years. That goes directly to street projects.
Speaker 7: Yeah. Thank you for explaining that. And it would just you know, I'm sure we'll be talking more about that outside of council over time and what the what the public in the near future. I will say that that I've also heard from many residents and I just just will compliment your department for the management and even the
Speaker 7: contractors doing the work. But there is a noticeable difference in terms of the quality of work being performed as well. I'm hearing that from residents who are, you know, seeing it firsthand and are really, really thankful and appreciative of the the curbs, the the the gutters, the sidewalks, the streets.
Speaker 7: I think we are experiencing unprecedented amount of infrastructure and infrastructure and and construction in our city right now. And I can say specifically, even in my district right now, we're seeing quite a bit it's a little bit of an inconvenience.
Speaker 7: But these are these are good inconveniences. They have because it's, I believe, an investment in our in our future. And we talk about being a livable city, increasing livability and quality of life. We don't do that without investing in our infrastructure.
Speaker 7: So those are my comments. I'm going to be very brief. I like what I see. I'm thrilled that that we have identified money for the hopefully to build out of Davenport Park and phase two complete can now complete really soon and the street improvements are just just just fantastic.
Speaker 7: So this is the best budget that I've seen in seven years. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilmember Pearce.
Speaker 6: I too enjoyed your announcer voice and your AP budget and so great work. I do have a couple questions. Let's see where to start. I do want to say I know everybody's giving you praise. I want to give you too much praise and we get too excited.
Speaker 6: But it is a really exciting time to be a councilmember. I know that you guys did the hard work to get Measure E passed. The voters did a hard job of passing that, and it's really great to be in council whenever we're able to to see all these changes.
Speaker 6: And you've done a great job on Broadway. I know that it's kind of a terrifying we'll be doing this whole story. You've done a great job about doing it piece by piece, working with the residents. And so I just want to say to you and your staff how much we really appreciate how smooth that has gone.
Speaker 6: So let's see. I have where to start. The beach, playgrounds. Can you talk? It says that it's unfunded. Can you talk about a funding plan for those beach playgrounds and a timeline for those? You know, I'm just like.
Speaker 1: So are you referring to the unfunded section? Yes.
Speaker 3: The city book? Yes, sir.
Speaker 1: So we thought it was important to add not only projects that were funded, but some projects that were still seeking funding for.
Speaker 3: Hmm.
Speaker 1: There are a number of priorities competing against the Tidelands dollars. We have seen some slight increase in Tidelands with the increase in price of oil. Hopefully that will continue in a way that will allow us to fund some of our priority projects.
Speaker 1: Playgrounds, pools, many of the other activities in the Tidelands, there's a number of different competing projects, but if there is extra money available, we wanted to make sure that that was highlighted. So this council would understand that there are projects on the shelf ready to go.
Speaker 3: If funding is available.
Speaker 6: Great. And I do I love seeing all the new park programs that are in here. I do want to lift up the Bixby Park. You know, and I know my predecessor did a lot of work envisioning Bixby Park.
Speaker 6: Spend a lot of time and money. And I want to thank Councilmember Price for sharing the cost of putting in the dog park there. We divided our divide by nine funds. We did not have majority funds to do that.
Speaker 6: We still have. I asked our most recent owner director to try to come back with the budget for what parcel one would look like. And I know that, you know, the funds of Bixby Park are going to work hard to fundraise.
Speaker 6: We're going to work hard to fundraise. In my mind, though, that parcel probably won't cost that much. And so it would be great if we could try to identify some funds and measure A to try to finish that parcel and the visioning with the dig and everything so that we're not spending another two years trying to put
Speaker 6: pennies together to make something happen that your department could probably make happen much quicker and save us all a lot of time and energy from all the conversations. I will have to have to get that funding together. So I want to put that as a priority that if we could get parcel one done along, you know, sometime
Speaker 6: after Broadway is finished, I think would be awesome.
Speaker 1: Yeah, there's some great work happening in Bixby Park right now, not only the dog park, but the investment in the community center in the shade structure. It's really great to be able to see those assets get improved in that community.
Speaker 6: Absolutely. I mean, I think, you know, parcel three, parcel two and really parcel one is that other parcel where we've got the structures in the middle. I mean, it is we went over there to have a community meeting and they are falling apart.
Speaker 6: And it it's going to take some capital to make sure that we can deter that that we've got lighting over there. And because of the situation, I know we have to have P.D. out there a lot. And so we did meet with them with our both of our commanders and Bixby Park.
Speaker 6: And they're going to go out there and do an assessment to try to help us get to there. And we're going to work with our new parks director. So I just hope that that as we're identifying funds, if it is, you know, smaller pennies, then building a whole new park, it would be really helpful, I think, for
Speaker 6: that community to kind of have that finished. And then I had a question around the senior center. I know that we're looking at trying to relocate that senior center. I know there's some conversations happening. The funds that were earmarked for Measure eight for that, are they still earmarked for when it moves?
Speaker 1: Yeah. So there's a couple of things going on with the senior center. There were some major funded to do improvements. We paused those improvements because we were concerned about potential subsidence issues and structural challenges in the building that the senior centers in.
Speaker 1: And we're talking about the senior center on Fourth Street. Yes, we did do a review and a geo technical survey and determined that we can address what subsidence was occurring and that it was a non structural challenge in the building.
Speaker 1: So at this point in time there is that money available to move forward. I know there is a secondary conversation happening about a potential move at the senior center. I think at this point in time it looks like the senior center is going to stay at its current location for a period of time and that we're planning
Speaker 1: to move forward with those improvements. So kind of green light, we're moving forward and we'll be making some improvements. Senior center soon.
Speaker 6: Great. And just while it's on the top of my head, I know that the seaside print shop was recently sold and is going to be a senior daycare, but it's a high end senior daycare, so I'll connect you guys with the people that recently purchased it, and maybe we can talk about shared resources on that corridor.
Speaker 6: It's not ideally what I would love there, but I think it's going to be a good asset. They're going to keep it nice and clean and tidy. Two other questions. You've talked about doing roof repairs. What is the conversation been within your department around the core roofs program that L.A. has implemented?
Speaker 1: So I think citywide we really have been embracing sustainable efforts and not only cool roofs, but solar. We're getting ready to do a new battery program at our public safety buildings so we can look at how we're we're purchasing and offloading not only solar, but but peak power.
Speaker 1: We we support sustainable efforts. We have installed the cool roofs. And I think you're referring to kind of the white colored roofs instead of a black or a charcoal, which has been typical many roofs. So we have done that and we support doing more.
Speaker 6: Great. And then at the convention center, is it a million that we have earmarked for the convention center or more?
Speaker 1: And in the FY19 budget, we're proposing $1,000,000 for convention center improvements.
Speaker 6: And can you quickly, if you have it, if you can remember the improvements that we did last year and what these went to and what these improvements would go to. I know that.
Speaker 1: I apologize. I don't have that list. I know there was some lighting work and some other. I can get.
Speaker 3: That for you and follow up.
Speaker 6: Okay. I just want to I know that every year we talk about the convention center and the needs to focus on the bones and everything else. And last year we were able to put in a beautiful fountain. And I also know that we have a lot of other projects in the Tidelands like Alameda Speech, Rainbow Lagoon and
Speaker 6: a lot of these playgrounds. And so just want to be able to have all that information in front of us and exactly what is proposed to be funded so we can make a decision on the Council and Tidelands if that's in fact where we want to spend our money this year.
Speaker 6: And then the last thing is, I see that Vision Zero action plan so that it's unfunded. I thought that we were moving forward with with that.
Speaker 1: And that may be misleading certainly to the development of the Vision Zero Action Plan is funded. We are moving forward. We have a consultant on board. We have started that work. What is unfunded right now is improvements that would come out of that action plan.
Speaker 1: We don't know what those are exactly. I don't have that report. I do anticipate bringing a Vision Zero action plan to this council, hopefully in the next six, nine months, on the outside, six months. And then we could start having that conversation about where those priorities lie.
Speaker 6: Okay, great. And I'll just echo my support for four Vision zero. I think you guys have done a great job about your improvements and as we continue with Measure A, makes sense. So get that in front of us sooner rather than later.
Speaker 6: So great, great, great work. Really pleasure working with you guys. Love your energy efficiency, sustainability vision as you go through this work. So thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Vice Mayor Andres.
Speaker 8: Yes, thank you, Mayor. Real quickly, Greg, I just want to thank you guys for a great job you're doing. And I just hope my council, my community is really watching this because the fact that when we have our community, you know, like budget, you know, meeting, I really hope that they can come and hear the good news
Speaker 8: that you have done for our district. Thank you again, big guy. Great job.
Speaker 1: That would be Thursday at 6:00, I think. Mr. Sanders, thank you. Councilmember Cipriano.
Speaker 2: Thank you. Great presentation. And I won't get into the weeds here, but since it was brought up, you had the traffic circle listed on the presentation. We've talked about that in the past, but it just struck me if the PCH project doesn't go through, that would impact that traffic circle differently.
Speaker 2: It'd be a lot easier to do the Traffic Circle Project if the PCH project goes through also at the same time. So we'll keep an eye on that. And I want to echo what everyone said about the the a great budget here.
Speaker 5: But I also want to say to Craig Beck.
Speaker 2: Every day I marvel at your management skill in operating a very complex department. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. And I think you, Mr. Beck, you and your team are doing a great job managing all the new projects that we have, just all of a sudden. So thank you. Is there a public comment on the CHP budget?
Speaker 1: Please come forward.
Speaker 11: Oh, my God. Oh, my gosh.
Speaker 6: Karen Reside, resident of the First District.
Speaker 10: It's great.
Speaker 6: To see all of the advancements.
Speaker 10: The city has made in the project. There's just a couple of things to put on my Gray Panther hat right now for the seniors, a city of our size, according to recommendations, should have a senior center for every 50,000 residents.
Speaker 10: So we only have six, which wouldn't really be full fledged senior centers. And we're the only city of our size that doesn't have a modern, up to date senior center.
Speaker 6: So it's great that we're starting.
Speaker 10: To to look at that process and to see what the needs are of our seniors are. But we want to also preserve the senior center that's on Fore Street. That senior center is.
Speaker 6: Heavily, heavily used.
Speaker 10: By residents in that district. And if that senior center as close to the services go away, it's going to very negatively impact the seniors that live in that particular area. They just want to bring that. And also I want to mention sidewalks.
Speaker 10: You know, we're replacing sidewalks and there are some still that are really. When the assessment was done, like the ones around St Mary's, where a lot of seniors go, that there's one that's got a razor that's like eight inches high.
Speaker 10: And I walk it twice a week when I go and volunteer there and one is afraid I'm going to trip over it.
Speaker 6: So if that could be pushed out.
Speaker 10: That's really health and safety hazard. And the tiles on Pine Avenue, the snatch where it's all elevated. I know Donna Darnella has tripped and fallen on those tiles. So have I. And so is Jack. Matt Smith, who before he passed, said a lawsuit on that.
Speaker 10: So those are just some key issues that needs for our seniors and also lighting. And I know we're on a road lighting replacement program. I hate going down Pacific Avenue. It's the street I heavily travel. It's not that well, but thank you for all the hard work and it's great to see the improvement province.
Speaker 6: Keep up the good work.
Speaker 1: Thank you. There's a motion in a second to receive and file and and will continue to the next budget hearing, which is next council meeting. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 1: And the next item is the the last item that we will try to time certain but it's the budget so it's been difficult is item 19.

Speaker 1: And the next item is the the last item that we will try to time certain but it's the budget so it's been difficult is item 19.
Speaker 0: Report from city manager recommendation or request city attorney to prepare a resolution in support of the Los Angeles region's Safe, Clean Water Program. Special Partial Parcel Tax being considered for the November six, 2018 ballot citywide.
Speaker 1: Sure do have an announcement before we start this. Councilwoman. Councilmember pearce.
Speaker 6: I. Yes, I have to recuse myself of this for doing consulting work with them. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. And with that, I'll turn this over to Mr. West.
Speaker 4: Diana Tang has been leading this effort. Diana?
Speaker 6: Good evening. Is members of the City Council. I will be brief because I believe about two or three weeks ago you got an in-depth presentation on the Safe, Clean Water Program. But before we dove into this, I wanted to talk briefly about the actual costs of meeting stormwater compliance.
Speaker 6: The costs have been debated for about a decade, but since these standards have become a part of every city's obligations over the last ten years or so, the estimates have gotten better. In Long Beach, we estimate the cost for the city to meet stormwater compliance is between 600 to $900 million over the next 30 years.
Speaker 6: We have 11 specific team deals or total maximum daily loads that we have to comply with. And these team deals require that our city watches and limits pollutants such as E.coli and the L.A. River Copper Lead and zinc in the Los Angeles Channel and the San Gabriel River PCBs, DDT and other stormwater pollutants in the Colorado Lagoon
Speaker 6: , as well as trash in the San Gabriel River Listeriosis Channel and near-shore areas such as Alamitos Bay. So we as a city are responsible for meeting these stormwater standards and each of these water bodies, regardless of whether the pollution is generated in Long Beach or if it comes to us from upstream, that means that our city has
Speaker 6: been disproportionately bearing the burden of stormwater compliance. And this since this time deals have been established where we have before us with the Safe Clean Water Program is an opportunity for funding to be generated in every city within the Los Angeles County flood control district that can be used for stormwater compliance in each of those cities.
Speaker 6: And where possible, there may also be the opportunity to increase water supply by offsetting potable water use with recycled water. If every city upstream of Long Beach has more resources to address stormwater pollution before the water enters the storm drains, then that means that stormwater making its way down the Los Angeles and San Gabriel Rivers will be
Speaker 6: cleaner when it enters the Pacific Ocean, the Colorado Lagoon, Mother's Beach and other waterbodies in Long Beach without going over the personal toxin depth. As I mentioned since just a few weeks ago, you got that end of presentation.
Speaker 6: I'll touch upon the highlights in this proposed parcel tax and take questions at the end of the presentation. So again, the L.A. County Board of Supervisors approved this ballot ballot measure for the November ballot by a vote of 4 to 1 on July 17th.
Speaker 6: It will require a two thirds vote to pass. And this is a special parcel tax that will be serviced by the Los Angeles Flood Control District. The tax rate is at 2.5 cents per square feet of impermeable surface.
Speaker 6: And so the average parcel tax for single family residents in L.A. County is about $83 per year, and total revenues that we're looking at are about 300 million per year. So again, the program proposes to improve water quality by increasing stormwater and urban runoff and reducing pollution.
Speaker 6: There's also the opportunity to increase water supply, provided that there is a nexus to stormwater and the overall funding allocation. So 40% goes directly back to cities based on the amount generated by each city. 50% goes into a regional program and winemakers into regional watershed groups, and so will have the opportunity to compete for funding in the
Speaker 6: lower Los Anderson River watershed and also the San Gabriel River watershed. And then 10% of total revenues generated go to a district program and then we'll go over each of these. Very briefly again, the municipal program for language.
Speaker 6: That's about $5 million a year that we can use for stormwater compliance information against stormwater. When you hear stormwater complaints, you can think water quality improvements for to really do go hand in hand. Again, funding must be used for water quality programs and projects.
Speaker 6: And then the proposed ordinance provides for local control, which is something that the city of one beach and a couple other cities, but very hard for with respect to the original program, is 50% of the funds. And these are competitive.
Speaker 6: But as I mentioned before, any funding that is invested in stormwater improvements, whether in Long Beach or upstream of one which eventually does benefit Long Beach, as all stormwater does flow towards the ocean and the program creates nine watersheds in the safe clean water program.
Speaker 6: Again. Let me just in two. And in the lower L.A. River watershed, there'll be about $14 million in competitive funds. And in the Lower San Gabriel represent, there's about 18 million and competitive funding. And again, this revenue is generated based on impermeable surface area.
Speaker 6: So depending on the size of your city or the size of your watershed, that has an impact on the type of money that you're looking at competing for it. And then with the district program, the district will be using, though, 10% to actually administer the program, provide stop support for regional programs, fund cross watershed scientific studies.
Speaker 6: So, for example, the Upper L.A. River Watershed and Lower L.A. River watershed scientific studies that benefit both could be funded through this 10% and not taken out of the 50% that we just spoke about. And then over a five year period, the county is committing to a $25 million minimum investment in stormwater education similar to the water
Speaker 6: conservation presentations that we may have seen in years past. Stormwater education is relatively new. And so we do believe that this is an important part of the program and something that the city is required to do as well.
Speaker 6: And so to the extent that we can leverage this, it helps us to say, to summarize through the municipal program, the city of one, which gets $5 million in direct funding, a year work eligible to compete for competitive funds.
Speaker 6: The regional program in two different watersheds, the average parcel taxes, 85 or $83 excuse me, per year. And the funding does support water quality improvements. So with that, I'm available to answer any questions.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Councilman Richardson.
Speaker 2: Thank you. First, I want to just say, Diana, thanks and congratulations on a really good job negotiating a very strong position for the city of Long Beach. We've seen we've had this conversation about our position at the mouth of two rivers, many of our council districts and communities adjacent to those those rivers.
Speaker 2: And so we understand that, you know, simple enter rainfall impacts on our communities are significant at significantly higher level than it does adjacent communities. And we also know that there are unfunded mandates that we need to try to comply with.
Speaker 2: Without the resources to do so. And so as a coastal city and a city that we're we are proud to call a beach city. And Washington Post talks about how many great days we have with great weather. We want to protect that and we have to invest in that.
Speaker 2: And so I congratulate the Board of Supervisors for acknowledging this need and for putting this forth to the voters. So I support this, and I think it's smart and we need to be an example as a as a coastal city at the mouth of two rivers.
Speaker 2: We need to set an example for other cities upstream across the gateway and across the county. And so that said, I move that we that the city council take a position of support for this upcoming measure the clean was it Los Angeles region's safe clean water program special parcel tax.
Speaker 2: Thanks.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Nexus Council embraced it.
Speaker 7: Thank you. And I support as well. This is a this is very important to the city of Long Beach. For many reasons that have already been stated by by Diana Tang and Councilmember Richardson. And I think in terms of hopefully the voters will will recognize and hopefully have confidence in our ability to to move large public works
Speaker 7: projects to to improve our stormwater system here in Long Beach. I can't say that I have the same amount of confidence for for some of the upstream cities. And I'm curious to know how some of those cities are going to be be able to plan because they don't have the resources that Long Beach does.
Speaker 7: And so I'd like to to look more into or hopefully limit our assistance to some of those cities to try to get their their their programs off the ground, because they what happens in many of those upstream cities certainly impacts our city as well.
Speaker 7: And so hopefully we can work with the the organizations like the Gateway Cities Council governments and through the County of Los Angeles to come up with a plan to to assist those cities to be super aggressive about getting their stormwater programs together to clean up the waterways coming to Long Beach.
Speaker 7: So with that said, I am I'm happy to support this and send it to the voters.
Speaker 1: Public comment on the site and please.
Speaker 10: Can we say it again? This is one of the issues that the landscape Pampers has come on board to support. It's time we did something about our water system in cleaning up our local water. We were the only community organization that went to the Board of Supervisors meeting from Mom Beach that ended up testifying beside the staff
Speaker 10: . So we're committed to supporting this project and doing whatever we have to do so that people understand how critical this issue is to us as the city. And thank you for those of you on the Council that have had the foresight to see how important it is to clean up our water and started the discussion on these
Speaker 10: issues a while ago. We look forward to participating in projects and working to help develop green jobs as a part of this in encouraging more water permeable surfaces in our parks and infrastructure.
Speaker 3: Thanks.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Next speaker.
Speaker 0: Hi. I'm her Linda Chico. I'm the field deputy for L.A. County Supervisor Janice Hahn. And I have a statement on her behalf. On July 17, 2018, Supervisor Hahn and the majority of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors voted to put the Safe, Clean Water Program funding measure on the November ballot.
Speaker 0: Each year, over 100 billion gallons of water flow down our drains and our loss to the ocean rather than captured for re-use.
Speaker 10: As it travels, the water picks up tons of trash and toxic pollutants.
Speaker 0: That end up on our beaches. This toxic runoff is why the Department of Public.
Speaker 6: Health is forced to close our beaches after big storms.
Speaker 0: And the city of Long Beach understands.
Speaker 6: This issue well. Since it.
Speaker 0: Spends approximately $1 million per.
Speaker 10: Year.
Speaker 0: On cleaning up its.
Speaker 6: Beaches, the county also contributes half a million dollars per year to.
Speaker 0: Try and.
Speaker 10: Stop trash from reaching.
Speaker 0: The city of Long.
Speaker 6: Beach by capturing trash while it still.
Speaker 0: Is in the L.A. River.
Speaker 10: Supervisor Hahn believes.
Speaker 0: The residents of Long Beach do not deserve polluted water and dry aquifers. This is why she voted to put the safe clean water program funding measure on the ballot. The measure could potentially provide funding for stormwater.
Speaker 10: Projects that will create local jobs.
Speaker 0: Replenish our underground aquifers.
Speaker 6: Keep our.
Speaker 0: Beaches clean, and ensure.
Speaker 10: That clean, safe water flows throughout our taps.
Speaker 0: For generations to come. Supervisor Hahn wants to leave Los Angeles County a healthier and more sustainable place than she found it. And she urges the city of Long Beach to support this measure and allow the voters to.
Speaker 10: Decide if cleaning and capturing.
Speaker 0: Stormwater is important to them as well. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Nick. Speaker, please.
Speaker 6: Good evening, counsel. My name is the only Kim I work with the L.A. Alliance for New Economy, and we're part of a coalition, our Water L.A. coalition, that's been working to inform and support this measure.
Speaker 0: And so thank you for your consideration.
Speaker 6: And for all the work that staff has done to make this a strong measure. We're excited that it's on the November ballot and and excited that you're discussing it tonight. I just want to underscore what you've already heard, that this measure is a real opportunity to address a triple crisis that our region is facing as far as
Speaker 6: water quality, water supply and extreme weather, that this measure has the capacity to address both drought and flooding risk. And that's a real amazing win to be able to address all of those things in one measure, in a way that is also bringing investments to communities, beautifying them, creating more open space and more shade for communities, and
Speaker 6: especially with commitments to invest in low income communities. This is a measure that will also help create jobs. We've been working with the building trades and with SEIU to inform the quality of those jobs and to also figure out how to increase access to those jobs for the communities that need them.
Speaker 6: We, our staff has underscored and as you've commented, see the great benefits to Long Beach. And just a comment to the Councilmember Austin's question around upstream smaller cities that there's a technical assistance program that the county is working on that can really help to bolster some of those smaller cities efforts to better address the water that's coming
Speaker 6: down to Long Beach after them. So I think that technical assistance program will help with some of those smaller cities upstream of you look forward to working together with the city for an implementation to make sure that the jobs created are good and that the projects are invested equitably throughout Long Beach and would love to continue working
Speaker 6: with you also to get the word out to voters. As it's been mentioned, it's a tax measure, not the most. I think as Councilwoman Mongeau said earlier, a lot of this infrastructure, these pieces, they're not the sexiest thing that people thing people most like to focus on, but they're the thing that at the end of the day
Speaker 6: , people have to navigate to get through their day. And this is a you can only live for three days without water. So we look forward to working with you to get the word out to voters to really have their consideration for this measure in the fall.
Speaker 9: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you. See no other public comment. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 1: Okay. Thank you very much. Let me try to get back to the to the regular. I don't think there's any any more requests for items on here. So let me go back to the regular agenda. Is Estella Magallanes here?
Speaker 1: We did concern calendar, didn't we? No. No, we did consent, though. Did we did consent. Right. Okay. Estella Margolin is here. Is David Dykstra here? Yes, sir, I am, sir. Please come forward. Is Kristi Melly here? Mama Lee?
Speaker 1: Yes. Please come forward. Thank you.