Meeting: LongBeachCC_03202018
Date: 2018-03-20

---

Speaker 4: Those were the ones that were requested to move up. So those will be first and then we will go on with the regular agenda. Next up is hearing item number number three.
Speaker 0: Hearing item number two.
Speaker 4: Number two, correct. We did it. We did three. I'm sorry.
Speaker 0: First hearing item number two is a report from Development Services recommendation to receive supporting documentation into the record, conclude the public hearing and adopt negative declaration and zero four Dash 17 Declare Ordinance amending various sections of Title 21 of the Lumbee.
Speaker 0: Tomorrow's more code relating to the regulation of tattoo parlors. Read the first time and lead over to the next regular meeting. Adobe Resolution directing the Director of Development Services to submit a request to the California Coastal Commission to certify an amendment to the Certified Local Coastal Program City.
Speaker 4: Thank you. We're going to go ahead and begin by hearing the staff report, Mr. MODICA. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
Speaker 7: We'll have a staff report again from Kari Tai, our current planning officer.
Speaker 9: Thank you. Good evening again, Mayor Garcia. Members of the city council to know that before you tonight is an update to the city's zoning ordinance with regard to the regulation of tattoo parlors. Just a bit of background. In 2010, the U.S., the ninth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that tattooing is protected under the First Amendment.
Speaker 9: And then fast forward to March of 2017, where the city was involved in a lawsuit. And the court ruled, or at least had preliminary findings, that the existing zoning code unreasonably restricted the permitted locations of tattoo parlors in the city.
Speaker 9: And so therefore, in order to comply with the preliminary findings of the city attorney's office and city staff is proposing this update to the zoning code. Just to go through some existing regulations today, our zoning only permits new tattoo parlors with the with a conditional use permit in the following zones, just the H W zone and then
Speaker 9: also the downtown plan and the midtown specific plan areas. That's it for all the entire city. And so in addition to that, there are buffers, there's a separation requirement of 1000 feet from adult entertainment uses as well as tattoo parlors and bars.
Speaker 9: And there's also hours of operation regulations in terms of one of the reasons that the existing tattoo regulations seem to be pretty restrictive is that there there has been through time a sort of a negative stigma with regard to tattoo parlors.
Speaker 9: You know, and however that and basically today there are nine licensed tattoo parlors in the entire city of 50 square miles. Times have changed a bit. And not only that, but the with the court's new finding, there was the need to update the zoning code.
Speaker 9: The zoning code. So one of the first things that we did was study some of the more cutting edge tattoo ordinances throughout the state of California, many some of which like Oceanside and Hermosa Beach, also resulting from court challenges.
Speaker 9: So the proposed zoning code amendment would allow tattoo parlors by right, which means no conditional use permit that allows for certainty to be built in the process whereby an applicant can open up the zoning code, open up a zoning map, and determine for themselves in a clear and concise fashion whether a tattoo parlor would be allowed in
Speaker 9: a specific location. So tattoo parlors would be allowed by, right, as proposed in all of the commercial zones, with the exception of the sea ice zone. That's the one that's specifically reserved for self-storage and commercial storage facilities. But the rest of them would be a sizable for a tattoo parlor.
Speaker 9: Also, we would propose to allow tattoos in commercial zones in the in the plan development districts such as the downtown plan, such as the Midtown Plan, such as a PD one, which is the southeast area, up soon to be secret plan.
Speaker 9: And then we would also propose to retain a locational buffer, which is 500 feet away from existing tattoo parlors, as well as 500 feet away from schools in your pocket. We did include a map that looks like the one on the screen that details where tattoo parlors would be allowed based on those proposed criteria.
Speaker 9: And as you can see on the map, there's a peach color and that's generally throughout the city where tattoo parlors would be permitted and they run along the commercial corridors. The proposed zoning code amendment also has proposed performance standards.
Speaker 9: The reason is that these performance standards take the place of conditions of approval. Thereby, when the city permits a tattoo parlor, the up the the business owner or the applicant would have to agree to operate that tattoo parlor in accordance with these performance standards for the life of the business.
Speaker 9: And that includes hours of operation between 10 a.m. and 10 p.m.. Prohibition of service of alcohol and the like. And this is I would like to mention, in addition to existing health department requirements and other requirements that are outside of the zoning code.
Speaker 9: So so this would be in addition to the other requirements. The Planning Commission conducted a public hearing on this item on February 1st and forwarded a recommendation to the City Council for approval. The in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act, the proposed zoning code amendment was evaluated through an initial study and found to have no significant
Speaker 9: impacts to the environment. Therefore, a negative declaration was prepared. Public notices for this city council hearing were sent out. Staff received four phone calls of support and no comments in writing. And with that, the Planning Commission is forwarding a recommendation to the City Council to adopt the negative declaration and adopt the tattoo parlor ordinance as well as
Speaker 9: forward. This to the California Coastal Commission for a local Coastal Program amendment pertaining to areas in the coastal zone. That concludes staff's presentation and we can answer any questions you have. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. There that was. We're going to go ahead in the next part of the hearing and do public comment. So is your public comment on this hearing. Now would be the time to come forward? Seeing no public.
Speaker 4: Please come forward.
Speaker 8: I'm Eric Garcia, counsel. Well, my name is Joe Kasher, and I've been a tattoo artist for 27 years. I own Ace of Hearts Tattoo on Pine between seventh and eighth. And I have specific knowledge of this type of deal because I was helpful and instrumental in the legalization of tattooing in 1997 in New York.
Speaker 8: I was actually on the board that recommended that tattooing be legalized in New York and actually in that because of that. New York became a disaster as far as tattoo shops go. And by that, I mean the regulation that you guys are bringing down won't help tattooing.
Speaker 8: I'm not 100% against opening other zones of the city to tattooing, but this kind of 0 to 60 mentality that I feel is happening right now is very scary to me as a tattooer. And as far as keeping the tattooing, the quality of tattooing in Long Beach, which has that many shops, I guess eight or nine.
Speaker 8: We all know each other. We all kind of police each other. All of them are owned by tattoo artists. Opening the city up like this will have a negative effect in countless ways, but one of the main ways is people will see Long Beach, which is a great city and has a rich tattoo history as a cash
Speaker 8: cow. Non tattoo artists will open because there are no regulations saying a non tattoo artist can open a tattoo shop and they'll come in, drop their minimums down to negative. So there will be that part of it, which will be the financial for the other tattoo shops.
Speaker 8: There won't be any regulation on infection control because I've dealt with the health department very closely and Glen Fong and I worked very hard together to get everything and I went through a lot of jump through a lot of hoops, let's say, to make sure that everything was perfect in my shop.
Speaker 8: I just feel that it's very detrimental to the tattoo face of Long Beach to just immediately open up what seems to be so much more of the city to anybody who wants to open a tattoo shop. And I understand it's because of the lawsuit.
Speaker 8: And when I talked to people, the lawsuit was very instrumental in what happened. It's not good for tattooing and the industry in Long Beach, and I think Long Beach has had it's really the way it is right now is fantastic.
Speaker 8: And like I said, I'm not against opening up other zoning areas slowly, maybe letting a couple of other tattoo shops open every once in a while or every year or so. But just opening up the whole city, I think is a huge mistake.
Speaker 8: There will be if you go down, up and down Hollywood Boulevard and you see the way those tattoo shops are, there's no regulation. People get infections. There's a huge amount of people getting infection because no one's policing them.
Speaker 8: And health department, I don't think has the manpower to police every one of the tattoo shops, of which immediately there will be, you know, as many as you could possibly imagine.
Speaker 4: Thank you so much. Okay. Next week, replace him.
Speaker 1: Those of us who are of the intelligent design mindset that we have a creator, we are approaching an hour where we will be remembering, as Jesus asked us to, not his birth, but his death. Remember my death. I live every time I hear the statement.
Speaker 1: Original intent. I love those pretexts of statements. What was the original intent? Whether it is tattooing or same sex lovers or whether not medical or. We'd what we whatever we're going to call it the Orient, the original intention of God for a man and for a woman and the bodies that he put our spirits in.
Speaker 1: And if you're atheist or agnostic, this is not for you tonight. Council people.
Speaker 4: I want to make sure that we're sticking to the hearing. It's just to be here. Well, Mr.. Sorry, we have to speak on the tattoo parlor.
Speaker 1: You're going right.
Speaker 4: There. Thank you.
Speaker 1: I am going right there. We were all born with a body. And we get that body came out as God intended it to be. He made no mistakes for it. We have eyelashes and. Here where we need it curves where we need it.
Speaker 1: Now we're at an hour where we're saying, I want pain on me now. I want to write on me. And then the argument is not whether or not it should be authorized. I'm saying for those who have ears to hear, you're representing the city council.
Speaker 1: But God put you in your position. What's the original intention? People with no laws cast off restraint and they do anything. Your eight year old, your four year old? Well, they're going to be looking. How soon can I get my mark?
Speaker 1: And it's all leading to somewhere that mark. It's leading to somewhere. Tattoos now. Okay.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Next speaker, please. Stephen Morrison, CEO, Second District. With regards to the proposed ordinance and the specific part of it that outlines as part restrictions on marijuana distribution to that Section 5.9 of the Long Beach Municipal Code already prohibits that.
Speaker 4: So I don't know why that should be included in this particular ordinance. Additionally, if the purpose of this ordinance is to try to make it so that you're not going to have this being challenged in court, I don't see any particular reason why you have the buffer zone for near K-through-12 schools, unlike, say, comparable comparably to another
Speaker 4: sensitive use like marijuana, where there is an existing federal law that requires a certain buffer zone for that. There are no such prohibitions for tattoo parlors. I mean, a sense they should be regulated for marijuana use perspective. Now, I guess to say a barbershop and with regards to the again, to the specific of what was being outlined
Speaker 4: in that proposed ordinance, I think the other speaker spoke to it really to articulate as well, despite the fact that we have land, that we have health and safety powers, there were no specific outline health requirements as part of the on that proposed ordinance from a you know, the you're dealing with the injection of subcutaneous inks.
Speaker 4: I think that, you know, basically an autoclave, for example, would be required for that or certain capital investments in order to make sure that a tattoo parlor is safe and regulated as part of the rest of the community.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you. We're going to go ahead and close public comment and move on to the council accounts and reports.
Speaker 2: Thank you. I want to thank staff for the presentation. I know this is something that you guys have been working on since I got into office nearly 19 months ago. And so I did have a couple of questions.
Speaker 2: I know that right now we have four parlors that have conditional use permits, and I know that we have in here proposed performance standards and that it includes operations, appearance and health and public safety. When we we're referring to the state and city health regulations to be enforced, are those regulations particular to parlors?
Speaker 1: Yes. Those are specific for any tattoo parlor that opens and that would apply both to any proposed new parlors as well as existing parlors. They are subject to the state regulations as well as the local city of Long Beach Health Department regulations which require training in how to handle Bloodborne.
Speaker 1: Let's see what it's called here. Bloodborne Pathogens. They generally just make sure that the the facilities and the equipment are safe and that the employees that are employed in the tattoo parlor have been trained appropriately.
Speaker 2: Okay. So in addition so we passed this today, will new parlors come in, be subject to a new conditional use permit or just by these guidelines?
Speaker 1: Only these guidelines. The whole point of this was to based upon the the lawsuit, it the basis of it was that the city was making it too restrictive for the type of use. So the whole intent in working with the city attorney was to craft language that allowed an appropriate amount of permissiveness and that did not discriminate
Speaker 1: against the use based upon any specific type of characteristics of the use. So no new tattoo parlors would require a conditional use permit.
Speaker 2: Okay. And then let me ask for the locational buffer requirements. We have 500 feet from an existing tattoo parlor and public or private schools. What was that number based off of? Was that the state recommendation or did we come up with that in-house?
Speaker 5: Okay.
Speaker 9: Thank you for your question. So staff.
Speaker 1: Studied.
Speaker 9: Of.
Speaker 1: Several.
Speaker 9: Aspects with regard to buffers. Number one, the the most recently adopted tattoo ordinance from the city of Oceanside was was an example, but also using existing buffers for other land uses. There are several other land uses that also use the 500 foot buffer from schools and namely alcohol as well as alcohol, beverage manufacturing.
Speaker 9: And so with the existing buffer being 1000, we wanted to make it less restrictive. And so we took the cues from Oceanside as well as other land use buffers.
Speaker 2: Okay. Thanks for answering those questions. I want to say, you know, I know that tattooing has come a long way as a form of art. My mother had slaves. I might have one or two. And I know that Long Beach is a city that embraces the arts.
Speaker 2: We have some folks in the Arts Council here today as well. And recognizing that the staff report includes kind of the pass view of the tattoo artists, which was.
Speaker 1: An interesting perspective.
Speaker 2: But I want to say, as a councilmember in the second District, I wholly support new artists coming in, making sure that we are doing this in a responsible way, that we're protecting the health and safety of our residents, and that we recognize this as an art form.
Speaker 2: I think we have a new parlor opening up in the second district. I believe his name is Carlos, who is well known in Los Angeles and really is going to bring some more attention to the city about being a world class art city.
Speaker 2: And I hope that, you know, I know we used to have on the Queen Mary, we had a big event around tattoos and trying to make sure that we're celebrating that, but doing that in a respectful way. And so I support the staff's items.
Speaker 2: I know you guys worked hard on this, and I appreciate all of that. I ask my colleagues to also support this. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilman Gonzalez.
Speaker 9: I just want to say that I'm appreciative of staff as well. And thank you to the owner of Ace of Hearts for being here. You're in my district and I really love the quality of your work. When I pass by there, you're open really late and we like North Pine to be open in a time where it
Speaker 9: looks active. And we really appreciate you being here. I, too, have a question, though, just related to the the 500 feet. I know we are trying to be less restrictive. I see other cities may push to 700. Would that be any would that be a big issue for us?
Speaker 9: I just I know in the downtown we're already dense, you know, so it just 500 is pretty narrow.
Speaker 1: That is certainly a reasonable request. And if we are so directed, staff would certainly go back and take a look at that and bring something back to council. That's not my understanding because it was not originally proposed that we could change on the floor tonight, but we could certainly bring it back if that is the direction of
Speaker 1: council.
Speaker 9: Yes, that would be great. I appreciate that. Thank you very much for your work.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilman Austin.
Speaker 10: Thank you. And I want to thank staff for their work as well, understanding that this was brought on as a result of a lawsuit. But in my opinion, we probably should have been ahead of this a long time ago.
Speaker 10: I did have just a follow up question regarding the the health and safety standards for the proposed tattoo shops. What is in place now? It says the ordinance reads that the applicant shall comply with all applicable state, county and city health human services regulations, including but not limited to the State Safe Body Art Act.
Speaker 10: I'm not really familiar with the State State Body Art Act, but I am curious to know what sort of local enforcements will we have and provisions do we have in place right now?
Speaker 1: I'll go into them very briefly because we didn't go into it in great detail here because it wasn't so much a land use issue. But in short, let me just quote from the staff report here. Any body art practitioners are required to annually register with the city.
Speaker 1: They have to obtain annual bloodborne pathogen training. They have to provide documentation of hepatitis B vaccine status. They have to obtain specific health information from their clients, including an informed consent for anyone who they perform body art on.
Speaker 1: So that's just a really brief summary of them. We can certainly, if you'd like more detail, we can get more detail and bring that back to you. But that's just a sampling of the kind of procedures that our health department requires for anyone who's actually performing body art.
Speaker 1: So they must be licensed. They must be trained, and they must take appropriate precautions.
Speaker 10: All right. Thank you very much. I think that's a very important element here and possibly something we need to look at further.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilmember Pearce.
Speaker 2: Yeah, I had one other question. Just to be clear for everybody.
Speaker 1: Those that are already.
Speaker 2: Open and have a conditional use permit, if we change the number of feet that another parlor can be, are they still grandfathered in?
Speaker 1: They are correct. They would be considered as legal nonconforming users.
Speaker 2: Great. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. I'm going to say a comment in return of the city attorney. Just as a reminder, I think some people spoke to is that the impetus for this conversation, one has really been about this this case coming to federal court, and we were in federal court on this issue.
Speaker 4: And so it's important that we react and respond to the findings of a of the court as well as what's going on with case law across the country on this particular issue. The second thing is, I think it's pretty clear, regardless of the federal court issue, the stigma around tattoos and body art is at a completely different
Speaker 4: place than it was 20, 30 years ago. And the the businesses that opened today, the the art that's happening, the kind of commitment to quality operations, I think is really important. I also want to thank the gentleman that spoke today, and I just also want to be clear to those watching that regardless of whether we open up
Speaker 4: additional tattoo parlors, which are illegal conforming use, they have to follow very strict state and local health regulations. And so we would never allow one to open that didn't meet the highest standard of health and safety codes, of which are which are both local and state level law.
Speaker 4: And so those would have to be met regardless of changes to this to this ordinance that we have in front of us today. So I just wanted to clarify that. Mr. Park and Jeff, anything else?
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mayor. Yes. As mentioned by Councilmember Gonzales, I think what the council will be voting on tonight is to make the change to the buffer from 500 feet to 750 feet. We would need to take that back, make that and then bring it back to council for approval of the ordinance.
Speaker 7: So this evening, if I understand the amendment to the main motion would be not we can't approve it tonight, but we would update the ordinance to the buffer and then it would come back at a later date.
Speaker 4: Is that the.
Speaker 9: Yes, that's correct. And I said 700, but if seven.
Speaker 7: 5700, I thought it was seven. Okay. 7.7.
Speaker 1: Oh, sure.
Speaker 4: Okay. All right. There is a motion and a second, please. Members, go and cast your votes.
Speaker 1: We would need a date. Certain. So know. Date certain. Okay.
Speaker 4: Mr. said he tried to do a negotiation on that because I think we could if.
Speaker 7: We could select a date certain we would eliminate the need to re notice it. If we just take it back this evening and come back, we would have to re notice the hearing.
Speaker 4: To which we do have a recommendation on a date certain.
Speaker 5: 30.
Speaker 4: 45 days.
Speaker 7: After my first.
Speaker 2: My first.
Speaker 4: My first. Okay. We're okay with that because of the motion. Okay. So May 1st will be the date certain. So we have motion on the floor. Members, please go and cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Councilwoman Mango. Motion carries.
Speaker 4: Okay. Thank you very much. That concludes the three hearings. We're going to go on to the regular agenda. Can I just get a motion in a second quickly on the consent calendar before we go to the items, is a comment on consent calendar saying that please cast your votes.

Speaker 3: Thank you. So next, we'll have item number 14, please.
Speaker 0: Item 14 is communication from Councilmember Pearce. Councilwoman praise councilmember turanga and Vice Mayor Richardson recommendation to support the 35th annual Long Beach Lesbian and Gay Pride Festival and Parade by examining ways to reduce city and staff fees pertaining to the event.
Speaker 1: Councilmember Pierce I have a presentation for us, so I want to thank the.
Speaker 2: Gay and lesbian pride. Long Beach Gay and Lesbian Pride for being here tonight. I'm delirious. This is the third time we've been here this late. I want to thank you guys for your work and your supporters for being here.
Speaker 2: I do have a presentation I think they have ready in the back. And so I want to do the presentation first and then have you guys speak and we'll try to go through it. You know, not super duper fast, but fast enough to get us home before one.
Speaker 2: I know vice mayor is like, what?
Speaker 1: Okay, in the back. Could you guys play on the video? We got a little video to wake you guys up with.
Speaker 2: Hopefully it works. Let's try it again.
Speaker 1: No. We'll give you, like, one more. We go.
Speaker 5: There we go.
Speaker 2: So I believe this video was done.
Speaker 1: By I'm not sure who.
Speaker 5: It was done by, but.
Speaker 2: Enjoy.
Speaker 4: Both. David Memory is my first here living in Long Beach and going by the is the first time there has been a. Felt really comfortable just being in a city that.
Speaker 5: We loved and feeling like just having challenges, whatever I.
Speaker 4: Had nobody judges at all. My Oscar and my stage name is Mia Farrow, and I'm also the current 46th elected president of the International Import of Palm Beach launch party. Was the first time ever something like. Artist like in the first year that he represented.
Speaker 5: And I was a lot of.
Speaker 2: You guys have enough? Yeah. So if you could go back to the presentation, please.
Speaker 9: Yeah. There you go.
Speaker 2: Next slide. Okay. So this year is the 35th year that we have had Long Beach Pride, rock and roll in our streets and really bring a sense of celebration to the community. I know in the eighties and particularly in the eighties, our community was struggling and having a moment to celebrate and a weekend to really lift up
Speaker 2: . The fact that we're stronger together and to celebrate the diversity of our community has been fantastic asset to our city. In three decades. And over the last three decades, Pride has been a grant giving organization where they've used their funds to give over $1,000,000 to other nonprofits, whether it was to youth services, mental health services, transgender services
Speaker 2: . And so we are really thankful that in Long Beach we have such a robust giving organization that supports all aspects of the LGBT community. And one of the most exciting things is that we have an organization that really is not a district organization.
Speaker 2: It's not a second district, a first district. A third district is an organization that brings an event that is an a regional event. And with that regional event, we get $12.3 million annually to Long Beach's economy and 23.4 million to the regional economy.
Speaker 2: We also make sure.
Speaker 1: That we celebrate the corridors that.
Speaker 2: Embrace that community, and we have new residents that come as a response to it. Be culturally diverse. Diverse? Yeah, I'm tired, guys.
Speaker 1: See?
Speaker 2: Okay. So one of the challenges that our organization that we're very proud of is struggling with is over the last four years, the revenue has fallen. This is reason cited to this are performance cost changes to ABC regular regulations as a result of an expanded process that they've had in making sure that we.
Speaker 1: Are.
Speaker 2: ID'ing everybody at the right areas and that we're protecting our residents and following code as needed. We've had lower ticket sales and I want to be clear that these changes are not necessarily a direct result of the city increasing fees, but that the costs have become more because we've changed the way that we've operated, from what I
Speaker 2: understand. So my goal today was to ask my colleagues to support Pride as a.
Speaker 1: Regional.
Speaker 2: Asset to our city and to explore a couple of options.
Speaker 1: One thing I want to be clear is that Pride Parade.
Speaker 2: And festival is not a city sponsored event like MLK, like the Veterans Parade. And so we have not in the past reduced any cost for this organization. All those costs have been paid for by this organization's ticket sales and and garnering individual support.
Speaker 1: So what I'd like to.
Speaker 2: Ask for today is to make sure that they provide their plans for 2018, no later than April 1st to special events. And we're actually trying to get them a little bit earlier. I would like to ask that the organization work with special events and economic development, which they have not done in the past, to identify cost saving
Speaker 2: measures like parking plans, smaller footprint, maybe shorter days, advertising opportunities. And then the next 40 day.
Speaker 1: 45 days.
Speaker 2: Return to council. I know in the agenda item it says 30, but I've talked with special events and I know that it's a little bit challenging. So we'll try to get as close to the 30 days as possible, but give us a little bit of extra time on that.
Speaker 1: I also spoke with the city auditor previously today and spoke with her about wanting to.
Speaker 2: Support this organization, continuing to grow and to thrive. And I know that there's conversations out there around the audit that you guys have been trying to work with somebody. And so our city auditor would like to sit down with you and try to identify some best practices so that.
Speaker 1: We can come back and see how we as a city really support you. I know that in cities.
Speaker 2: Like West Hollywood and other great cities.
Speaker 1: Their charter allows them to support.
Speaker 2: The organization in a different way than we do in Long Beach. And so as city attorney, I.
Speaker 1: Did want to ask one question, because they're not a city sponsored event. Does the charter hold us.
Speaker 2: Back from removing costs like police and fire and issues like that?
Speaker 7: I don't believe it's the charter that holds you back. I believe it's the policies established by the city council.
Speaker 1: Okay, so I had some this.
Speaker 2: Information given to.
Speaker 1: Me. So if in the next. 30 to 45 days when we're working with special events. If we could identify.
Speaker 2: What opportunities the city has to help reduce some of those costs, at least for the next year. That would be my intent of this item. And so I want to thank my colleagues for signing on to this. I know that it's an organization that we get to see our senators, our assembly members, our Congress members in this
Speaker 2: parade. And it.
Speaker 1: Really is a great opportunity, especially when every year we have different hate.
Speaker 2: Crimes that happen in our community. And I find that this is the moment when we really get to rally around with all the events that come with pride. And so, again, I want to thank you all for doing your due diligence for coming to the city and asking for some partnership.
Speaker 2: And I know that my colleagues, I expect, would support this, and I want to hear from any public speakers. Sorry. Thanks.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilwoman Gonzalez. Oh. Are we going to public first? Okay. Public comment, please.
Speaker 1: Uh, your honorable vice mayor and city council members. My name is Denise Newman. I'm the president of Long Beach, Lesbian and Gay Pride. I've been a member there for five years and it has been a tumultuous five years, but it's been a rewarding five years.
Speaker 1: When I became a member, I stepped into an organization that was completely in flux. We sat in our first city meeting and for me it was absolutely horrible because I heard about an organization that was out of alignment with the city, ABC guidelines, etc. because our festival was primarily supported by volunteers.
Speaker 1: The volunteers didn't have a stake in whether or not they did things right or wrong. And as a result, it kind of tarnished the name of Long Beach Pride. So for whatever reason, I got dubbed that person to come and be a part of Long Beach Pride and fix it.
Speaker 1: So my nickname became Fix It. I am so proud today to stand before you and say that we have done what I said we were going to do. When I came and spoke to you about four years ago, we now have a very flourishing relationship with special events and filming.
Speaker 1: We have an excellent relationship with Long Beach Police Department. I too am tired and fire. We went from a meeting where people glared at you to a meeting where we can now hug. But the first time we held a meeting at Long Beach Pride versus the Convention Center or at special events and filming.
Speaker 1: And that's something I think that we should be proud of. Councilwoman Pierce, you actually made a number of my points in regards to how we can partner together. I think we have a unique opportunity in front of us, as this organization has had to move from pretty much a mom and pop type of thing.
Speaker 1: We've had to kind of grow up. And unfortunately and fortunately, the organization is made up of volunteers. Volunteers like me. I have a full time job 10 hours a day. I got to be up at 445 tomorrow morning.
Speaker 1: However, we are bound by the level of talent that's within the organization. So we had questions in regards to why do we use so many consultants? Well, the primary reason why we had to do that is because we didn't have the talent within the organization to do some of the duties that were required of us to do
Speaker 1: . We didn't have someone who could do festival setup. We didn't have someone who could do parade. Right now, we struggle with we're slow to get talent and even slower to do marketing in order to put that information out to the community.
Speaker 3: Thank you so much for your testimony.
Speaker 1: I'm sorry, I forgot I had.
Speaker 4: You got like an extra.
Speaker 3: Minutes, so you're good. Okay. Thank you for your time. Speaker, please.
Speaker 5: Good evening.
Speaker 1: Honorable mayor, vice mayor and City Council. My name is Judy Horne and I'm a member of the board of directors of Long Beach Gay Pride. Thank you for allowing me to make. Not really a presentation, but an opportunity to address things in several areas.
Speaker 1: And not just the LGBTQ team, whatever population, but overall senior age groups. I've been connected to Long Beach gay pride since the late 1980s, and finally, six years ago I decided, well, I'll just join this organization and see what I can do within it.
Speaker 1: I've always been impressed with the outreach to all communities, but especially with the gay community population. I received my my first mailing from AARP. You know, when you turn 50, you get that. I thought that 23 years ago.
Speaker 1: Okay, 23 years ago, I got that. But I guess I want to bring out the fact that there are so many challenges that crop up as you age. Some of you may already know that. I don't know. Okay.
Speaker 1: But but I've also found that getting old is not not for sissies in any community. It takes guts. It takes determination to weather the storms as you would begin to age. I'm a good example of that. But Long Beach has always been the pride.
Speaker 1: It's always been a forerunner in community issues and help. And you saw some things on the video up there that explained that at Christmas time, we even have a toy giveaway in there and the community and those parents bring their kids because they know every year they can get a brand new toy, at least one brand new
Speaker 1: toy, and they come to Long Beach Pride to get it. There's just a small elementary school right behind us, and we have interacted with them and their principal and one time send them somewhere like to Knott's Berry Farm.
Speaker 1: So there's a lot of interaction there within the entire community. So but now going from the childhood years, this is my segway here from the childhood years that we help, we're going to go to the senior hood years.
Speaker 1: I made that word up the senior.
Speaker 7: Hood years.
Speaker 1: In 2018 at Pride. I'm especially excited about a whole brand new annual event beginning its maiden voyage at Pride 2018. It's called the Senior Fun Zone. The Senior Fun Zone. You know, a couple of years ago, I think that they had a place where they would play some oldies but goodies, music, and the seniors would sit around
Speaker 1: and listen a little bit. Well, that's not what this is. Key word is fun, and the key word is interactive because we're going to have bingo games, we're going to have karaoke, you know, all those people that can sing or think they can.
Speaker 1: Okay, we're having bingo games and karaoke and we games that be okay. Anyway, it.
Speaker 3: Really does sound like a lot.
Speaker 1: Of fun. It is.
Speaker 3: I do have to let you know that we were up on our.
Speaker 1: What? You all can come and join us if you're at least age 50.
Speaker 3: Saying 20 years. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 14: Good evening. My name is Paula Goldberg and I serve as the executive director for the LGBTQ center of Long Beach. The LGBTQ center of Long Beach strongly supports this agenda item for the City Council to explore ways to reduce city and staffing fees pertaining to the annual production of the Long Beach Lesbian and Gay Pride Festival on
Speaker 14: Parade. The center also strongly encourages the city of Long Beach to actively and consistently support this event on an annual basis by a sponsorship or significant reduction in fees associated with renting city property, street closures and staff expenses, as it has done in many major metropolitan cities in the United States.
Speaker 14: Long Beach Lesbian and Gay Pride is one of the oldest continuously operating LGBTQ organizations in the city and continues to serve as a vital institution responsible for the city's outward facing presence as it relates to demonstrating LGBTQ inclusion and integration within our city.
Speaker 14: As the city is aware, our Pride celebration also has a tremendous positive economic impact in the millions of dollars on an annual basis. Pride also serves as a vital charitable funder for hundreds of local nonprofits and individuals. Through their annual grants and scholarships program, many cities can currently provide fee reductions to their pride organizations, including the city
Speaker 14: of West Hollywood, which continues to lead the way in California as a model example for prioritizing LGBTQ equity through their many policy initiatives, work groups and public programs. The City of Long Beach has an increased. The opportunity to demonstrate leadership and make an impactful commitment to supporting our LGBTQ community by supporting Long Beach lesbian and gay pride
Speaker 14: again for these reasons and so many more. The LGBTQ center of Long Beach enthusiastically supports the current agenda item. Thank you very much.
Speaker 4: Thanks, Porter. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 15: Good evening, Honorable Vice Mayor. City Council members, city attorney and city staff. My name is Leslie Smith, and I've been practicing law in this state for 27 years. I'm here today to express my opposition to Resolution 14, which seeks ways to reduce fees and the 2018 Pride Festival.
Speaker 15: I've been investigating the Pride Organization and its affiliates, and I have special knowledge about the pattern and practices of this organization's current regime. The investigative knowledge I've ascertained reveals the following. Sexual harassment settlements involving several sitting board members, including its current president, Denise Neumann.
Speaker 15: Fraudulent activities involving the operations at the Pride Office and the festival event. Misappropriation of charitable funds and gross mismanagement of the organization, including failing to perform background checks and live scan of its members and volunteers. Violations of codes of ethics and other statutes.
Speaker 15: Exposing the PRIDE Organization and any affiliates to extensive liability. Engaging in a pattern of collusion in awarding special favors and lucrative final financial contracts to the field. Representatives of high ranking public officials such as Tanya martin, the field representative for State, Senator Ricardo Lara.
Speaker 15: Ms.. Martin alone has received over $100,000 from Pride in the past few years. Additional lucrative contracts have been awarded to other friends of Pride's current administration, some of whom are unlicensed or unqualified to perform the task for which they were paid.
Speaker 15: It is further evident that this practice of collusion has extended to many local political clubs whose boards are staffed with yet more employees of current elected officials who have the political power and control to influence and manipulate nonprofit contracts.
Speaker 15: The city of Long Beach has been unfairly blamed for Pride's inability to provide community grants and scholarships. It's no coincidence that Pride's net revenue has fallen the same number of years. This current regime has been leading the organization.
Speaker 15: Sadly, the regime is led by a president who has a history of fraudulent and deceitful conduct, as demonstrated in these public records. You would be rewarding illegal, fraudulent and unethical behavior by giving any concessions to pride at this time.
Speaker 15: At a minimum, before giving any concessions, you should first demand an independent financial audit the removal of those board members who were the subject of sexual harassment.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your time and you're more than welcome to submit back their comments in writing.
Speaker 15: Scans. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Next to your police.
Speaker 1: Thank you. I am not speaking for the religious community in Long Beach. I am speaking as an individual pastor. Tonight. When I first heard that the city was allowing a. Rainbow flag to represent same sex relationships. I just pondered for a moment.
Speaker 1: And. There. I felt in myself. I felt God was saying it's being flown because now it is time for the religious community to openly address the issue. That is why the flag is being flown. So since the flight, I don't know if it's still up, but since it was flown when it was last when I was last
Speaker 1: here a couple of years ago, I thought, okay, I'm here tonight. And it's that issues on the agenda, so let's address it. I just.
Speaker 3: Be clear. The meeting's not about the flag. It's about the.
Speaker 1: I understand. Okay. I just used that as a pointer. You. You took some of my minutes. Can I have them back? Thank you. To first of all, the definition of gay dating back to Merriam Webster's dictionary and all the way back to 1948 means the state of being emotionally happy.
Speaker 1: It had no sexual connotation whatsoever. It means the state of being happy. Like I'm gay to be here tonight. I'm not gay that it is going on 1:00. But I'm gay to be here tonight. To know how someone pleasures their sexual partner is none of my concern.
Speaker 1: To have a flag flown in that regard. I could say let's fly a flag for all people who are menopausal. Let's have a menopausal flag. That we're having to have a discussion of that. I like people. God likes people.
Speaker 1: And I'm not going to think one way or the other. On gay porn, same sex pride day that okay, this is what we're doing. We're celebrating people who have same sex relationships. I rather believe it's frivolous. That the only celebration we need is that these people are breathing and that they're that they're human, as I that we're
Speaker 1: able to stand here. I celebrate that. I don't take anything away from a person because they have a same sex relationship. Nor am I granting anything because they have a same sex relationship. God's intent for men and women stands.
Speaker 1: That will not change because we have decided that we want to go one way or the other. God said, Let us make man in our image, male and female.
Speaker 3: Next picture, please.
Speaker 4: And good evening, Vice Mayor Richardson and city council members. Thank you so much. It's kind of late, but I'm here to just share with you just a personal story. I was an associate member of Long Beach Pride, and Long Beach Pride gave me the opportunity to be a part of the organization, especially somebody who was just coming
Speaker 4: back in reentry into society. So very, very grateful to this this organization. But I'm here in support. I'm here in support from project. All of a recipient of the Long Beach Pride Grant for the last three years. And in our inception in 2013, we were 12, formerly incarcerated, LGBTQIA, gender nonconforming, loving individuals who needed a safe space
Speaker 4: . And we were embraced by Long Beach Pride. And we were given the opportunity to build a movement, but more importantly, a loving space that has now flourished with a documentary that has gone to San Francisco, Boston, another one releasing this Friday at Long Beach City College.
Speaker 4: But it's that funding that gave us the courage to build our voices, but more importantly, to build community and to build love within our community. And this past year, although Long Beach Pride did not give any of the community organizations a grant, I was fortunate enough to be the recipient of the scholarship for the last two years
Speaker 4: , and it's because of Long Beach pride that I'm thriving. I will be graduating June 7th from Long Beach City College and I am going to be attending Cornell University in the fall. And when I was a homeless person who was formerly incarcerated and was stigmatized by many people in our community, even those within our LGBTQ community, my
Speaker 4: marginalized voice was embraced by Long Beach Pride, and I will continue to support this organization. And I feel that when we reciprocate this law of reciprocity, where we can take a look at some some of the loopholes in opportunities for us to give back to our community, because let me tell you, I know we all enjoy pride
Speaker 4: . We all have a great time at Pride. So whatever we can do to take a look at saving and reinvesting back into our grants and scholarships, I'm hoping we can build more courageous change agents that will step forward, come forth and build.
Speaker 4: City of Long Beach.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please. Final speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Hello. My name's Tanya martin and I wish I had $200,000. Sorry. I came here tonight to thank the City Council and vice mayor for considering this item today. For those of you that don't know the history behind Pride.
Speaker 1: It's it's been a long battle. It's been a hard battle. And to be here with the organization today in front of you, it took a lot from us because of the fear and then in the things that we have been through since we've been a part of the organization.
Speaker 1: Me, myself, I met my first pride in 1992, straight from Alabama, and for the first time, I could hold the person I cared about. I could hold their hand. And I felt safe. I felt protected. And it gave me strength to do the same thing outside those festival walls and that protection so much that helped a lot
Speaker 1: of people. Today, all the pride's around the world to help us fight for equality and the right to marry. To marry, which I'm now married to a beautiful woman and we have four kids. So I just want to say thank you for this opportunity.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Special events and filming for working with us. And we hope that you will consider to vote. Yes. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. All right. To no further public comment. We'll take it back behind the rail.
Speaker 9: Councilmember Gonzalez Yeah, I, I really do love this item. I think it's definitely warranted that we look into options and supporting pride. You all have supported the community so much. It's not just pride that you're out. You're at Belmont Shore helping Belmont Shore as volunteers, you're helping MLK as volunteers, you're out in the community.
Speaker 9: So the reputation that I know of you has been such a stellar one. And so I just want to thank each and every one of you for your work. And it goes far beyond the weekend of pride, and we know that.
Speaker 9: But I will say to, you know, we have a I think what Councilmember Pearce brought forward was fantastic to look at a plan because we do need to look at, you know, what the city is going to look like.
Speaker 9: We treasure the pride. You know, we treasure the parade. We treasure the. A festival. This is something that makes our city so very unique, and we need to make sure that we support it as much as possible. So private funding.
Speaker 9: You know, having a large downtown parade or downtown festival, you know, how can we help you with with what we're doing and collaborating with special events and with some outside promoters to really assist everything that you're doing. So we'll continue the discussion.
Speaker 9: I thank you for bringing it forward and just know that I'm here to support you as well.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Brice.
Speaker 6: Thank you. I, too, want to thank you for being here tonight and the gentleman that spoke. Absolutely. I think every single one of us has a great time at Pride. It's a fantastic day. It's just there's no question about it.
Speaker 6: It's it's a really great event that we have in the city. And I'm I'm I'm proud to be a part of it. There are a few things that I do want to highlight, though, and I signed onto the item, so I support the item, but I think one of the speakers said this is a great opportunity because
Speaker 6: the event has changed. It's changed from where it started. The organization has gone through a lot of changes and there probably are a great deal of efficiencies that can be found if there is more direct partnership with the city.
Speaker 6: So I my my ask of the city would be if we're truly going to have a partnership that we sit down and we think about some efficiencies that can be had. Are we paying you know, are we are we paying too much?
Speaker 6: Are you paying too much for things that you could be saving money on? Are there vendors that you could be using that would ultimately result in your costs being less? So I really would hope that staff could come to the table and give us some honest feedback regarding some efficiencies so that we can move forward in that
Speaker 6: light. The city hosts and assists with so many special events and every single one of them is incredibly important and special to our city, not just for the communities that are bringing them forward, but for all the for all the diversity of our residents that we have.
Speaker 6: And I think we need to be mindful that when we do something special for one organization, we have to be willing, ethically and morally to do the same for everybody else. So what I don't want to do is enter into kind of a slippery slope where there's an expectation that year after year we're going to be subsidizing
Speaker 6: or helping or there's an expectation because I think what we could really do is maybe this is the year, what we get on track, figure out what the efficiencies are, and maybe change some things in the model that allows us to have better results in terms of our financial status after the parade.
Speaker 6: So that's what I'm really.
Speaker 9: Helpful for.
Speaker 6: And I think this is a great opportunity to do that. I also think that so there's so you know, I have two parades in my district and they don't receive any city subsidy. And I know it's always stressful for the organizers of that event.
Speaker 6: They have to run things so efficiently to make sure that they don't come out in the red. And so maybe even talking with other event program organizers to find out, you know, what is it that they do? How can we learn some of those backpack best practices?
Speaker 6: Now, you've probably already done that, but if not, that's something I would recommend because I know for them it's always to the penny what they've budgeted. So so I'm in favor of of using this year as a time to figure out what efficiencies can be made and seeing what we can do to help.
Speaker 6: I will say one thing, since I have you all here last year there were some amazing concerts that happened very late at night. In fact, they were so amazing that on the eastern most part of the city, our windows were rattling because the concert vibration was heard on the east side of Long Beach.
Speaker 6: It was. And I was communicating with special events. They were actually there trying to turn down the noise. I don't know what happened, but when I was getting bombarded, it was it was a Sunday night, so kids were trying to go to sleep.
Speaker 6: I kid you not. The windows in our house in Alamitos Heights were rattling. We were getting text messages from residents all over the city on the east side. It was on next door dot com. Everybody was saying, what is going on?
Speaker 6: We couldn't figure out. It sounded like the concert was at Rec Park, which was down the street from our house. So kudos to you for maximizing the volume of efficiencies. But please, please, if we're truly going to have a partnership, I think after such a beautiful weekend of pride activities, it was such a negative way to end
Speaker 6: that weekend. And so I asked you guys to please if we can be mindful of that partnership. But, you know, I love the event. My my staff and I participate. We have a fantastic time. Anything that we can do to help you guys keep this going, you've expanded it to a new level.
Speaker 6: Now you have a new norm. And that new norm is going to. Evolve a new model, a new business model. So I thank you for being here, for allowing me to say my piece. Thanks.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilmember Bianca.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mayor. My first pride parade was back in 1990. I was the recruitment officer for the city of Long Beach at that time. And I asked the the organizers if I could have an information booth at the actual events park to try to recruit knowledge, recruiting police officers and firefighters at the time.
Speaker 7: And they were so welcoming. I did have some difficulty at that time to get some firefighters and police officers to join me, because at that time it wasn't an acceptable. Acceptable, except it's late, acceptable, acceptable, I think, to accept it or to come out at that time so that that didn't happen till later.
Speaker 7: But I see this parade and this event as one that is has been breaking barriers for for a long time. And it seems like every time that that comes forward, there's something new that's being presented or being and another barrier is coming down is being broken.
Speaker 7: So I'm I'm very supportive of this. And that's why I signed on to it, because I think it's it's an event that needs to be sustained, that we need to continue. And if the partnership with the city would make it all that much better.
Speaker 7: And and, you know, to a casual woman, prices are concerns. We probably do need to work together and and create those parameters that we can all work together within. So, I mean, I'm very supportive of this and I look forward to working further with gay pride.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilman Andrews.
Speaker 11: Yes, thank you, Vice Mayor. I'd really like to say more, but I didn't put this on the agenda for 12:00. So kudos to you guys. Good luck.
Speaker 3: And also in Austin, thank you.
Speaker 10: And I appreciate the item coming forward. You know, 35 years, something is working. The pride parade has grown every year and become more and more of a, I think, exciting event. I think because it is a volunteer organization, you're going to have some natural challenges with with that.
Speaker 10: And, you know, I'm glad that we're having this conversation because I think we can the city can the council offices can be of assistance to to making sure that there is a consistency. Right. When you have elected nonprofit boards.
Speaker 10: Information is lost. Often times the leadership changes and organizational changes. I know for a fact that some of the people who were very involved in planning this parade are no longer with us. And they were they were key key to key actors in the in the planning process, you know, over the years.
Speaker 10: And so I understand that hearing the the public comment understand that there are challenges within the organization. But I got to tell you, each and every year, it doesn't show, you know, and oftentimes, you know, those challenges are very, very painstaking when when you're actually planning an event.
Speaker 10: But from the outside looking in, if you're not involved in the nuts and bolts, I think most of us appreciate, you know, the experience that pride provides everybody year after year after year. And so to those involved in the Pride organization, I just would salute you for the the dedication that you have put forth, understanding that it
Speaker 10: is a volunteer organization. And, you know, nobody's or most of you aren't getting paid to do the work that you do. And I'm glad that Councilmember Pearce brought forth some some more recommendations that I can certainly support this evening.
Speaker 10: I will just to say that I think it's it's really good if our city auditor can get involved and provide some some guidance. I mean, many of our our departments are run a lot better because of her, her hard work and her eagle eye.
Speaker 10: And inside of our department, they can give you some best practices and practices and ideas on, you know, how to make the pride parade more efficient, but also ensure that I think the operations are more standardized and that hopefully, you know, we can we can celebrate, you know, 50 years in another 15 years.
Speaker 10: So with that, I'll be happy to support item Councilmember Silvano.
Speaker 4: Thank you. I'm just looking at an email I got from Danny at nine this morning, so thank.
Speaker 3: You for staying up late.
Speaker 4: But I was so impressed by it because she put seven letters into one email and I actually called her to compliment her on that. Our offices would run so much more efficiently if everyone did that instead of seven emails.
Speaker 4: This is a great system, so I have high hopes based on that efficiency. It's just how well you guys are doing in the future. And also, thank you for the video. It actually had a shot of the Pride headquarters building, which is in the fourth District.
Speaker 4: And Councilmember Andrews and I talk about this all the time. There's not too many shots of the fourth District or sixth District in citywide video. So thank you for that. And also, I know you reached out to our office recently and please continue to do that if we can help in any way.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you. I'll just add my comments here. I know when it gets late, sometimes council members we turn into pumpkins or gremlins or whatever it is. But please don't count that against us. This is it's good.
Speaker 3: It's a good parade. We want to see it indoors. Got a great legacy in the city. So we want to want to do whatever we can to do that. And that also goes to the broader conversation around, you know, last year, the big issue was the Veterans Day parade and special events.
Speaker 3: We were able to figure out some ways to improve it and make it better. And so I see a good future there. And so if that's what this year is for the pride parade, then then I encourage a lot of cooperation to figure out how you can get to the next I mean, how many years?
Speaker 3: 35. So the next 35 years. We've already done public comment. We've heard from the council members, please cast your vote. And this this motion carries. Thank you. Okay, so these next few items, when we call it, I'm just going to look to the left and the right signal if you guys want to want to speak to it
Speaker 3: , because I'm just going to straight go straight to Stanford Court. So most of these these last ten. So I'm number 15 please.

Speaker 4: So we have the next the next two items are two hearings. So, Madam Clerk, hearing item number one.
Speaker 0: Hearing item one is from a report from Development Services recommendation to receive supporting documentation into the record conclusion, conclude the public hearing and adopt mitigated negative declaration. Mendi oh 617 Declare ordinance amending parts 11 and 17 of the use district map.
Speaker 0: Read the first time and lead over to the next regular meeting for final reading. Declare Ordinance Amending the Long Beach Business Center Planet Development Districts. Read the first time and lead over to the next regular meeting and approve site plan review and a tentative parcel map for three new light industrial buildings located at 2300 Redondo Avenue, 3200
Speaker 0: East BURNETT Street and 3600 East BURNETT Street in the Institutional Zone Archives District five.
Speaker 4: We can hear the acoustics are really good in here, so there's a lot of folks having conversations out up there. Those all need to go outside. And if I can please have the fire marshal in the back, or we can just get someone from the staff.
Speaker 4: Please have the doors closed upstairs, please. Because we can hear all those conversations. Okay. Great. Thank you. Again, this is a hearing, so we just please need everyone's attention and respect as we move forward this hearing process. And so with that, thank you, Madam Cook.
Speaker 4: Do you want to you have to read the last sentence or are we okay there? Okay. Excellent. With that, I'm going to I'm going to turn this over to our assistant city manager.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Members of the council. We'll have a staff report from Carrie Tai, our current planning officer.
Speaker 9: Thank you. Good evening, Mayor Garcia and members of the City Council. The project before you is a request for approval of a light industrial project at the site of the former U.S. Postal Service processing and distribution center at 2300 Redondo Avenue.
Speaker 9: The there's an aerial on the on the screen. You can see that.
Speaker 1: So the the.
Speaker 9: Building that's currently on the site is a 326,000 square foot processing and distribution center that's been used by the U.S. Postal Service. This facility is now closed and it was part of the Postal Service's system wide restructuring process.
Speaker 9: And so subsequent to the closure, the property was deeded to a private developer by the Postal Service. They went through a sort of a RFP process to select the suitable developer for the site. And then in terms of what surrounds the site there to the southeast is an art to neighborhood.
Speaker 9: I mean, it's largely developed with single family homes, but it's zoned R2. There's a in just an industrial campus and to the northeast, as well as the site of the new retail post office, which is going to be behind the distribution building there.
Speaker 9: And it's going to be off of Grand. There are industrial and institutional uses to the north and industrial and retail uses across Redondo in the city of Signal Hill. Directly to the south of the site is the California National Guard facility.
Speaker 9: The site for that's for development is just over 19 acres. It's actually a 20 a few and it's just over 20, if you include the part that's been split off to be for the new retail store. And the zoning is a combination of industrial and institutional to the north, be it's institutional to the south, and then it's
Speaker 9: residential to the east, and then a signal hill to the west, also zoned industrial. Now, part of tonight's request has to do with the zone change because the current zoning of the site is institutional, which is which would not allow for a light industrial kind of a development.
Speaker 9: And so the proposed zoning is what's called PDS seven. It is one of the city's zoning documents, and it's called the Long Beach Business Park. It currently exists to the northeast of the site and therefore the zone change would extend the PD seven boundary to the Southwest to include the subject site.
Speaker 9: So the developer proposes to build three new light industrial buildings, which would total 425,000 square feet. And that's what requires the approval of the site plan review. The subdivision is proposed to create an individual lot for each building, and that would allow for separate ownership of the buildings should that financial option become necessary.
Speaker 9: And I did talk about the zone change from institutional to PD seven. The zoning code amendment would be to alter the existing text of PD seven to create a new sub area. And actually, that might be better.
Speaker 1: If I can illustrate that.
Speaker 9: Right now, PD seven is is divided into three sub areas and the inclusion of the institutional site would be a fourth sub area and that necessitates the zoning code amendment. And lastly, for environmental review, the project did go through an initial study and resulted in a mitigated negative declaration, which I'll talk about a bit after I describe
Speaker 9: the site plan. So the project, as mentioned, is designed with three industrial buildings. The largest is to the south, and this site plan is oriented with north to the left. So the largest building is to the south and the two slightly smaller ones to the north.
Speaker 9: So the uses proposed for the buildings would be clean, light, industrial manufacturing, processing, research and development and local fulfillment type uses. There are truck courts for the buildings there, slightly of a U-shape, and that would allow for loading docks.
Speaker 9: The truck courts are 135 feet deep, which would allow for a sort of local fulfillment. But they are not as deep as, let's say, the typical logistics, heavy duty logistics uses that you would find in a larger facility.
Speaker 9: And that's important because the setting in which this is proposed is a lighter industrial nature, not intended to be any kind of a heavy trucking or heavy, heavy industrial use. The proposed buildings are of the architectural style you see on the screen, and they are a very high quality, modern, clean look with defined entries and and generally
Speaker 9: clean edges. The buildings are designed to be comprehensive with each other and they all match. So I'm going to go through the elevations. And there is a sort of an aerial rendering so you can see what the whole site looks like from Redondo.
Speaker 9: I did talk about the zone change a bit. And so I'm just going to summarize by saying the zone change would allow for a light industrial development on what is zoned institutional today. And this is the sub area map that I talked about.
Speaker 9: So sub area four is the subject site and it's to the southeast corner. The slide on the screen just summarizes basically the the zone change the like I said sub area for will pertain to the subject site that also includes development standards and use restrictions as part of the PD seven to govern the site from now into
Speaker 9: the future. I do want to mention one development one development feature, which is a 12 foot wall that separates the future site from the residential development to the back. And there is an alley there as well. As mentioned, an initial study was prepared for the project in accordance with the California Environmental Quality Act.
Speaker 9: The initial study found that with mitigation measures, the project will not have any significant impacts to the environment. The there are a variety of mitigation measures that the project will be required to follow throughout its life. And in conclusion, I would like to just point out that there is a couple of different actions related to the the
Speaker 9: city's city council action tonight. The Planning Commission did hear this item and forwarded a recommendation of approval. So that concludes staff's presentation and we can answer any questions you have. The applicant is also in the audience.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. And so with that, we're going to go ahead and go into the public comment period, and then we will come back to the city council for any deliberations on this item. So with that, if there is public comment on this hearing, please come forward.
Speaker 4: Now would be the time. Is that no public comment? Yes, please. Please come forward. No. It's okay. Take your time. Take your time.
Speaker 1: Thank you, Mr. Mayor, and city council. I am actually for this project. I live three blocks east of the new location, and actually they're already better neighbors. Pacific Industrial is already better neighbors than the USPS has been, so we appreciate them.
Speaker 1: They've gotten a lot of the bad rap from the USPS when they took down a wall, when they tried to use I saw it up on the board there that there was a driveway to nowhere and they tried to use that and make 23rd Street a thoroughfare for their retail location.
Speaker 1: So I work for Pacific Industrial. The neighbors are for Pacific Industrial. Thank you so much. Have a good night.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Is Pacific Industrial? Here to make comments? Yes, it. Good evening, Mayor. And council members and staff don't have much to say other than, you know, I think the staff did a great job explaining the project.
Speaker 4: I'm here to answer any questions, but being a local based company here in Long Beach, I can't tell you how excited we are to kick off this project. It's been a long, long process getting United States Postal Service off the property.
Speaker 4: They don't move at lightning speed. And they've we've had we've we've encountered a lot of obstacles along the way, working with the neighbors, you know, dealing with a very large government agency. But we've, we've, we've gotten there.
Speaker 7: They've relocated as of.
Speaker 4: Monday, correct? Charlie Yeah.
Speaker 7: So USPS is open.
Speaker 4: Has moved into the new retail facility as of Monday. So that's great news. It gives us the path to go forward as long as everything else goes smoothly tonight. So other than that, that's all I have. Thank you very much.
Speaker 4: I'm seeing no other public comment on this. I'm going to bring this back to the city council and. Oh, Mr. Goodhue, just very quickly, a highly intelligent project it certainly should have go through. I've been following it since day one.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you, Amazon. This back over to councilman mongo.
Speaker 9: It has been a long, long process. I want to thank Neil and Pacific Edge. There was a lot of competition in the process for the postal service and the Postal Service chose you and we, my office, the neighbors, we're all so pleased that you've been so great to work with.
Speaker 1: The driveway to nowhere that she mentioned.
Speaker 9: Is something that the federal government thought that they would take advantage of our neighborhoods. And my council office was pleased.
Speaker 1: To scrape.
Speaker 9: Together some money really quickly and make sure that that was not going to be possible by changing over that configuration so that they would not be able to do things that they had promised and committed to our neighbors that they would not do.
Speaker 9: So I'm just so thankful that we have a guarantee now that we will not be using just a pony while with the USPS, but we will have a full size wall. It's important to the community, it's important to my neighbors, it's important to all of us.
Speaker 9: And so I want to appreciate the neighbors that are here today and also the developer. And this is a fantastic project. This is the way that government works. This is when government works, how it works, even if it was a little slow, but not from our city staff.
Speaker 9: Thank you. City staff for for you. Pestering and pushing the U.S. Postal Service.
Speaker 1: As much as you could.
Speaker 4: Thank you for. And before I move on, I know if our fire marshal is dealing with this, but we can't have folks on the side. So I apologize if there's a couple open seats. So please, if you're on the side, you need to grab a seat or please exit the chambers.
Speaker 4: So there's a couple of seats over here in the front, please, if we can fill those, I would appreciate that. So all the folks are here on the side. Please fill seats or exit the chambers. Thank you very much.
Speaker 4: Okay. We do have some seats on this side, too. Thank you, Counselor Supernova. I think you just want to say I support this project. This is an art craft manner neighborhood, and that's divided between the fourth and fifth districts.
Speaker 4: So some of the neighbors reach out to me, but continue to do that. FORDHAM Over to Stacy Mungo. But thanks again, staff. You took good care of this situation, so please be on standby in case something else comes up.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Councilman Ringo.
Speaker 7: The great project that I'm interested in knowing is the new post office is going to remain the Steve Bourne post office. That's what it was named before. Do we have to go to a name change new project.
Speaker 4: I think staff don't answer that. I don't. I yes.
Speaker 1: It's not our.
Speaker 6: Understanding that.
Speaker 1: Any development the U.S. Postal Services do not have to come to the city for any action development permit, plan, review of any type, including a name change. It's completely within the purview of the federal government and no local involvement is there is no local involvement in the in their operations.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. There is a motion and a second on this hearing to receive the supporting documentation into the record and conclude the hearing. Just before we do that, I just do want it to just about Pacific Industrial.
Speaker 4: I want to thank you for the conversations we've had about the project. I particularly want to just thank you for elevating the the the look of the project, the landscaping, just to ensure that we're going to end up with a real quality, you know, light manufacturing on site, creative use, all those type of industries that provide good
Speaker 4: jobs to Long Beach. And so we appreciate your work. And this is going to be a good project for the city. There's a motion in the second. So members, please go ahead and Castro votes.
Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. We will now move on to for those that just came into the council chambers. We are in the middle of our hearings, so we have one more hearing. Then we will go into the regular agenda.
Speaker 4: And for those that are here, the first two items that we're hearing on the regular agenda. Are going to be item 13, which is to do with medians and item 27, which is to do with Women's History Month.
Speaker 4: Those were the ones that were requested to move up. So those will be first and then we will go on with the regular agenda. Next up is hearing item number number three.

Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Member 17 please.
Speaker 0: Item 17 is a report from Parks, Recreation and Marine recommendation to submit a grant application to the California Department of Parks and Recreation, Land and Water Conservation Fund program for Davenport Park. Sports Field and Recreation in an amount not to exceed or up to 3.1 mil.
Speaker 0: I'm sorry. Three male. Just game.
Speaker 3: Thank you. It's been moved and seconded the signature USF support. Okay. Let's hear from staff.
Speaker 10: Just a brief staff report that this is a very exciting opportunity that I think we should just make sure we get on the record.
Speaker 4: So interim director Steve Scott and Meredith Reynolds, Vice Mayor, members of the City Council are we're excited to be here tonight to bring forward this item, which is requesting authorization to submit a grant application to the Department of Parks and Recreation for the State of California Land and Water Conservation Fund.
Speaker 4: This is for the.
Speaker 7: Second phase of the.
Speaker 8: Davenport Park Expansion and Recreation Project.
Speaker 4: The project is planned for the Western 5.6 acres of Davenport Park and the is going to include amenities as identified through a community engagement process, which will include a multi-use sports field exercise equipment along the existing dog walk walking path and a shade.
Speaker 8: Structure and picnic area.
Speaker 4: So that in a nutshell is the grant application.
Speaker 7: We are very excited to be pursuing this. That concludes staff's report.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Anything else, Councilmember?
Speaker 10: Thank you for a report. I just want to say that, you know, we've been working very hard over the last several years to complete phase two of this Davenport Park. And I want to thank Parks and Rec, the staff who for who who have been working as partners but working very hard to make this happen as well
Speaker 10: . I'm really encouraged by this this grant opportunity, and we will do all we can to support it and wish I wish you all the best of luck for for our mutual community. Thank you very much.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Any public comment on this item saying no members, please cast your vote.
Speaker 0: Cosmo appears. Russian case.

Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 4: Thank you. We're doing item 13, please.
Speaker 0: Item 13 is communications from Councilwoman Price Council Membership Opinion Councilman Andrews Council Councilmember Ranga Recommendation to requires city manager and city attorney to draft an ordinance to prohibit pedestrian access to medians that are less than four feet wide or located on streets with a speed limit of 35 miles per hour or more.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilwoman Price.
Speaker 6: Thank you. I know I have some residents who arrived here at about 4:00 this afternoon for this item. So I'm thankful and I'm hopeful that they'll come up and give some comment if they are still here. But this is one of the items that I'm happy to be bringing back.
Speaker 6: Traffic. Traffic medians throughout Long Beach are dangerous places for people to walk, stand, sit, advertise for businesses, raise money for nonprofits, walk dogs or any other activity that is done while not in the process of legally and safely crossing the street.
Speaker 6: City staff issued a report earlier this year that that made it clear that some medians are not appropriate for standing and cannot safely accommodate a walkway due to insufficient with height, traffic speed, large traffic volumes and lack of accessibility.
Speaker 6: In the report, they further determined that the traffic safety concerns are heightened when speeds reach certain levels. City data and traffic studies throughout this country confirm that the risk of a fatality drastically increases for pedestrians when vehicle traffic around pedestrians has speed limits of 30 miles per hour or higher.
Speaker 6: The fatality risk increases between 3.5 and 5.5 times from 30 miles per hour to 40 miles per hour, meaning the risk of a pedestrian being killed at 30 miles per hour is relatively low. The fatality rate is nearly 50% at 40 miles per hour, and 79% of pedestrians struck at this speed sustained serious injuries.
Speaker 6: It doesn't matter what you are doing on the median. The median is not a place to stand at high speed traffic intersections. So as the city continues to work to improve pedestrian safety and make way for Vision Zero.
Speaker 6: This is a common sense policy that I urge my colleagues to support. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Councilmember supervisor standing in support.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilmember Pierce.
Speaker 2: Thank you. I want to thank my colleague for bringing this item forward. I did have some questions of.
Speaker 1: Public works that I see.
Speaker 2: Mr. Buck here. Yes, I did. I know that we recently approved our Vision Zero contract to start pulling together that group. I wanted to know how we feel that this impacts that Vision zero work.
Speaker 1: If this is in alignment with that.
Speaker 4: Councilmember Pearce. I think this is in line with Vision zero one. One of the elements that we don't have yet completed is the safety study. So if you recall last week when we came forward and had a conversation about Vision Zero effort, one of the first components of a Vision Zero effort is to identify what are our
Speaker 4: worst corridors, where do we find the most instances of vehicle and pedestrian accidents to occur? That information would certainly help inform how this ordinance would move forward.
Speaker 1: Okay, then I would ask my colleague, is there a time frame that you have on this?
Speaker 2: I'm sorry. Councilmember Price.
Speaker 1: I'm sorry.
Speaker 6: Once it's approved, the city attorney's office would commence drafting the ordinance.
Speaker 7: And that would be correct. But as Mr. Beck said, we would need that safety study to verify and justify the ordinance before it came back. So we would be working with public works on this recommend if it is approved this evening based upon the information we received from the safety study.
Speaker 7: So it may not come back right away, but it would come back after the safety study.
Speaker 2: Great. Thank you. I just wanted to make sure I know that we've spent many years talking about our vision zero.
Speaker 1: Hopes and dreams. And for those that don't know, Vision Zero.
Speaker 2: Is to make sure that our streets are safe.
Speaker 1: For everybody and we have zero.
Speaker 2: Traffic incidences. And so I just want to make sure that that is in alignment with that.
Speaker 1: So if it is, then I will support this item.
Speaker 2: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Andrews.
Speaker 11: Yes, thank you very much. I fully support this item.
Speaker 3: Great councilmember area.
Speaker 7: Given that there was an accident, fatal accident not too long ago in my district, right around Long Beach Boulevard. And Wardlow well, the individual who was struck was not on the median. He was an individual that consistently was on the median.
Speaker 7: He just wasn't at the time of that accident. So I am fully supportive of this this ordinance, and I hope that it goes forward. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Counsel Juan Gonzalez.
Speaker 9: Thank you. I appreciate this as well. To make sure we, of course, get to Vision Zero. I also wanted to see if we can include in I don't know how if this would be possible, but we have people that are constantly on the metro rail line as well.
Speaker 9: And I know we've had a lot of discussion with that. Of course, we have our metro representative here, as in our mayor. But maybe just as a another caveat within this ordinance, we can just work closely with Metro to ensure that people are not getting on, that the tracks, they're not jumping over the fence because it becomes
Speaker 9: a huge issue as well. So thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. We're going to move on to public comment a public comment on this item. Please come forward. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Good afternoon, city council members. My name's Gay Shelton. I live here in the first district a couple blocks from here, and I appreciate this item.
Speaker 4: Public safety is, of course, one of the reasons that we're here. However, it mentions here that the staff report that was issued last September, I imagine, was a two from four. I'm sorry I never had a chance to review it dealt with the feasibility of these actions, and the report that we have in hand says nothing about
Speaker 4: feasibility. So I'm curious about it. Feasibility to me means cost. And when it comes to public safety, maybe cost isn't something that we care to talk about, but feasibility when we're talking about spending public funds to do such things as I would imagine would be required to prohibit people being on these medians, would be landscaping, fencing, bollards
Speaker 4: , maybe, and the maintenance and and so on. That goes with any signaling that might have to be added to intersections or areas where there's where there's median strips, lighting, perhaps striping. That would change. What we're looking at is something that that we don't know how feasible it is in terms of how many thousands, hundreds, millions.
Speaker 4: Who knows how many dollars would have to be spent in order to do this? We also don't have any sense from the public's perspective of how much of an impact there actually is. Where are their median scripts that are less than four feet wide?
Speaker 4: How long are they? Are we talking about only at intersections or for miles and miles where there might be a narrow median that would have to be somehow protected from from pedestrian occupancy? So if we're really going to do this, I think the public deserves to hear something about the costs, about how many miles of medians have
Speaker 4: been identified, just what this is all going to look at. Again, we understand the need and it's simply repeated in this in this document. But the public is in the dark as to the feasibility and the cost. So I do appreciate hearing from you guys any questions that you might have for staff that could illuminate us on
Speaker 4: that. Thank you very much. Thank you, Nic. Speaker, please. Stephanie Dawson, CEO, Democratic Socialists of America, Long Beach Branch. As we discussed, as Councilwoman Pryce illuminated, this particular ordinance has been pretty much constructed in a way that makes it almost bulletproof to any particular challenge that would happen from, say, for example, the ACLU of Southern California as
Speaker 4: it's been constructed in a to provide a what's the word? Again, I'd rather describe it. It lacks a discriminatory intent. However, the discriminatory impact of this law will be unavoidable in combination with the recent prohibition against the bike shop, baking bicycle shop, chop shops and other type of actions that are being there designed specifically to be able
Speaker 4: to cut off revenue for homeless people. I mean, this is by doing this, we are essentially facilitating the removal of these folks and making them come over to a next city while doing so under the pretense of public safety.
Speaker 4: If right now, I mean, if you're applying for general relief, that's going to be under 50 bucks. If you're applying for Social Security disability, that's going to be, what, $600 a month or so? You know, people need a way to be able to live, especially with the rising costs of rent in Long Beach, which I think we'll
Speaker 4: be discussing later. Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker, please. Heather Jordan, when I appreciate counsel bringing this forward.
Speaker 7: And the concern for safety that has been outlined today, if only we were more concerned with the that the people who this will mostly affect, you know, besides this ordinance. You know, I've seen the fences go up on seventh and seventh near Bellflower and PCH, and I've oftentimes close to Long Beach Boulevard and Wardlow.
Speaker 7: So I see the people who are out there on those medians there. You know, Councilmember Price listed a lot of people who might be on the medians, you know, nonprofits. But the the people that she didn't talk about are the people who are most often there are those that are houseless, people without homes, people who are trying
Speaker 7: to earn money. And I'm all for safety. I'm all for keeping them safe. I think they do deserve that. But on top of that, I think they deserve other things as well, like a roof over their head.
Speaker 4: So I just want to make sure.
Speaker 7: That whatever happens when we implement this, that the people who are there aren't going to be severely punished because if it's a fine or something like that that they're given, these are people who can't pay that literally cannot pay that.
Speaker 7: So I hope when we move forward with the safety ordinance, we keep those people in mind. Thank you very much.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: He has told us what is good and what the Lord requires to deal justly. The same God of the flag. We are saluted tonight. One nation under him, he has said to deal justly and to love mercy. The people, my clients.
Speaker 1: I knew that they were the subject. They are the only people that are on the media and by and large, the homeless. You don't see a lady nursing her baby on the median. No one coming from the grocery store with the flowers in the hand on the median.
Speaker 1: It's the homeless. And some of you are running for re election. You said you were going to represent everyone. Yes. Everyone in it is offensive. But you have not probably shaken one hand of the homeless. One hand. How can you?
Speaker 1: How can you? That is not justice. To now say to these people, we don't want to say, you asked for money. We're not giving you a nickel of our spending. We don't want to see you with a sign asking for a nickel.
Speaker 1: It's why you're saying it. God sees it. That's what you're saying. Guilty. Your local charity. Don't give out to panhandlers. But there are no local charities where those signs are posted. The mediums is all they have. And I will continue to take food on the median.
Speaker 1: Matter of fact, I'm going to start printing up some signs. Give these people your dollars because it's against the law for them to ask you in jail to say, give to those who asked, to give to anyone who asked you.
Speaker 1: I am defending the cause of the poor. Some of you said you would do it. Where are you now? Yes. The shame is what it is. We have officers surrounding him with guns and sticks and they will protect you.
Speaker 1: I was protecting the homeless. I mean, protect like the officers with their weapons. It is offensive to that God you saluted tonight. It's an offense.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. Bouchard and the speaker, please.
Speaker 5: Well.
Speaker 10: I think you guys said you represent the public and everyone with a balance. So I just wanted to say that my name is valued. My address is on record. This is my 47th wedding anniversary in a heck of a way to celebrate a wedding anniversary today.
Speaker 10: I was not going to. I was I was not here to speak on this. But when I noticed that.
Speaker 4: We have two parades in this city every year, that people jam on the medians. This may be left unsaid, but we need to make sure that.
Speaker 10: We protect those people. During a Belmont Shore parade and the Veterans Day parade that when they're on the mediums are not breaking the law. So there's got to be some type of exception to it, I would think. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Hi. My name is Liz Waites. I would just like to comment.
Speaker 9: On a particularly disturbing and frankly sickening trend that I've noticed.
Speaker 1: Not in Long Beach.
Speaker 9: But also it's happening in.
Speaker 1: California, is these very thinly veiled attempts at shoving the homeless away out of sight. I noticed with the CSC or the Public Relations Department, there was some sort of collaboration about let's teach people to not give money to homeless people, give it to shelters.
Speaker 1: And I don't know if you guys have got the memo, but shelters are pretty brutal. And I just have to say the intention is transparent, the intention to force people out of sight and to not deal with them.
Speaker 1: You're not fooling anybody. And it's cruel and it's sickening. And I really you are here to represent everybody. And just because the homeless people out there cannot, like spare $20,000 doesn't mean that they are not worthy of protection.
Speaker 9: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. That concludes number public comment on this item. So we'll conclude public comment. I will go on to the rest of the council. Vice Mayor Richardson.
Speaker 3: Thanks, Mr. Mayor. And I just wanted to chime in and I you know, I tend to agree that meetings aren't the safest place for things to take place. But I think the audience raised to two questions that I would just like for city staff or the originator motion to speak to.
Speaker 3: So first, Mr. Lurch, thanks for raising the issue of the meeting. And so we want to make sure that we protect, you know, whatever whenever the street closures and and we actually have the opportunity to engage that meeting.
Speaker 3: We used it really well this last year in the Veterans Day parade sort of a line things along the median food trucks, things like that. So first I want to just address that. So, Mr. Beck, is there a way that we can make sure that we really take an accounting of when we do utilize the media and
Speaker 3: make sure that's reflected in this?
Speaker 4: Y would defer to the city attorney, but I would imagine we could easily add in special events would be excluded from any provisions that get written.
Speaker 7: I would agree with that. I think that the the ordinance and when we talked about when we would the delay in coming back is the safety study that's going to be conducted has to justify both the location and the action that the ordinance would be taking that to show that it is truly a safety issue and it's
Speaker 7: not a pretext for removing people from medians. So you're not going to have all medians qualify for this. It'll depend on the safety engineer and the safety study to justify the location.
Speaker 3: That makes a lot of sense. And then so the second thing I'll just raise, which was raised raised by the community here tonight, I want to make sure that we're not taking a step toward penalizing criminally or fining for creating a perpetual system where people can't pay the fine, but rather figure out ways to make medians safer
Speaker 3: and and sort of a discouraging activity. In the meetings, for example, we had a lot of activity on Jordan High School, people running across the street from Jordan to the apartments. They lived across the street and we wouldn't use the crosswalks.
Speaker 3: So we just built a nice decorative treatment in the median and people respected the crosswalk respect meaning use the crosswalk. So I would love to see industry, I would love to see sort of public works best practices utilized to achieve whatever is the best outcome so that there's no appearance that the intention here is to sort of
Speaker 3: penalize any particular group. And I know and and I would assume that that's not the intention here. Thanks.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Councilman Austin.
Speaker 10: Thanks. And the first mayor, you actually stole my my thoughts here because I was going to say, I think the makeup of the motion, the intent here when you look at the language here, is talking about traffic and, you know, speeds of high speeds of 30, 40, 50 miles an hour.
Speaker 10: So I think the intent of what what is being proposed is to deal with traffic safety and prevent people from being hit by by vehicle vehicular traffic. Secondly, I think, you know, to your point regarding the treatment that near Jordan High School, I think more of that needs to be done.
Speaker 10: We need to engineer traffic safety measures. Well, we know we have have problems or potential problems. And so I'd like to see more of that type of those type of solutions on top of this from from our public works department.
Speaker 4: So just thank you, Councilmember Pearce.
Speaker 2: Thank you. I just wanted to echo the same concerns that my colleagues recognize and anything that we can do to beautify the areas instead of just putting up a fence that we have some best practices and that this comes after, again, Vision Zero.
Speaker 2: I know that that Vision Zero will help guide us to make sure we're doing it in the right corridors and the right median. So thank you for that.
Speaker 4: Okay. Thank you. There is a motion and a second on the floor to approve item 13. Please cast your votes.

Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Item 27, please.
Speaker 0: Item 27 is a communication from Councilmember Pier's Councilwoman Gonzalez. Councilwoman Price. Councilwoman Mango. Recommendation to receive and file representations from Human Relations Commissions for Women's History Month.
Speaker 4: Councilman Pearce.
Speaker 2: Great. Well, I want to thank our Human Relations Commission for joining us tonight. I believe we have four members that are with us, maybe five members that are going to take today to give us a little presentation on women's history, particularly focused on Long Beach.
Speaker 2: If I'm correct, I haven't seen the whole presentation, but we have to make sure that we take this time, especially with women in politics with. We've got an exciting announcement at the end of your presentation, I believe, on on another event happening in the month.
Speaker 2: So I'm going to let you guys take it away and just recognize that women are more than 50% of our population. We must be celebrated. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Thank you for taking my taking my first line. Of course. Good evening, Honorable Mayor Garcia, city council members and of course, the esteemed city staff. And I want to thank this civically minded town for the turnout that has happened this evening.
Speaker 1: And I hope we can brighten your moment for the next 15 minutes or so. And let let this get back to you all. I would first like to, of course, thank the women of the City Council for bringing this forward and allowing us to be here tonight to talk a little bit about the state of women.
Speaker 1: We're going to do this in 15 minutes. So we are not going to even touch a little on what we really should be talking about. But we're going to give you four interesting topics tonight to think about exactly what Councilmember Pearce said.
Speaker 1: 51% of our population in the last census was women. If you look around this room, I've had enough time to be here. 65% of this room is women tonight. And and and women really have a big part of what we do here.
Speaker 1: Obviously, with four council members being women, it changes how things are looked at in in the whole city. We at the at the Human Relations Commission are excited to bring Women's History Month to the city in this very small way tonight.
Speaker 1: The purpose of the HRC is to promote full acceptance of all citizens in the community, in all aspects of community life. In 50 minutes, of course, we're not going to get to all citizens. But tonight we would like to share four interesting topics about women in our city.
Speaker 1: And those topics tonight will be domestic violence. We'll talk also about restorative justice. We'll be talking about homelessness and we'll also be talking about politics and the women leaders that we've seen come through our city. I'm very excited to have three of our commissioners here this evening, as well as we've brought in the women's shelter of Long
Speaker 1: Beach. They've come in on the last minute to help us with the domestic violence piece. So I'd like to first introduce to you Alexis Sandoval from the Women's Shelter of Long Beach to talk a little bit about the next topic.
Speaker 0: Good evening, Mayor Garcia. Council members and fellow community members. My name is Alexis Sandoval, and.
Speaker 1: I'm here to share brief information.
Speaker 0: About domestic violence on behalf of women's shelter of Long Beach. So domestic violence is an issue that.
Speaker 1: Affects everyone, regardless.
Speaker 0: Of their gender identification, socioeconomic.
Speaker 1: Status, religious background.
Speaker 9: Sexual orientation and so.
Speaker 1: Forth. However, women are much more likely.
Speaker 9: To be victims of.
Speaker 0: Intimate.
Speaker 1: Partner violence.
Speaker 0: With 85% of domestic violence victims being women and 15% men. Too many women.
Speaker 1: Have been held captive by domestic violence.
Speaker 9: Whether through physical abuse.
Speaker 1: Financial abuse, emotional abuse, mental abuse, sexual abuse, religious abuse, digital abuse, or a combination.
Speaker 9: Of these.
Speaker 1: On nationwide, three women are murdered every day by a current or former male partner in the U.S.. 50% of lesbian women were experienced domestic violence in their lifetimes. One in four women will be victims of severe violence by an intimate partner in their lifetimes.
Speaker 1: Over 30 million women have experienced physical, intimate partner violence in their lifetimes. These statistics make it evident that domestic violence is an issue that affects the entire nation. But how does it affect Long Beach? According to the US Census Bureau, the population of Long Beach in 2016 was 470,130.
Speaker 1: Taking into account that one in four women will be a victim of domestic violence, this means that nearly 117,532 women in Long Beach alone may have been victims of domestic violence. Furthermore, since 2014, women's shelter of Long Beach has served nearly 8000 Long Beach residents.
Speaker 1: Their direct client.
Speaker 0: Services, outreach and.
Speaker 1: Education and adult and youth prevention programs. These numbers make it clear that domestic violence is a community issue that can only be eliminated through increasing awareness and making a collaborative community effort. Though we also be working towards this end through hosting.
Speaker 0: Awareness, raising events in the community and.
Speaker 1: Educating youth at local middle schools, high schools and college campuses. In addition, WCB also partners with the Long Beach Police Department, California State University, Long Beach, and other local.
Speaker 0: Organizations and service.
Speaker 1: Providers. Thus far, our efforts to eliminate domestic violence have had an impact on the lives of many. In the words of a domestic violence survivor and former WCB client Jennifer Barbosa, the support of women's shelter of Long Beach and my community helped me leave a life of hurt and violence behind.
Speaker 1: I now live a life full of joy, love and empowerment. I now have the knowledge and skills necessary to advocate for those who cannot advocate for themselves. Stories like Jennifer's show that as a community, we are working towards taking steps in the right direction.
Speaker 1: Thank you so much for your time. And I will now introduce Kimmy Mannix from obviously.
Speaker 9: S.J., who's in a speak on restorative.
Speaker 1: Justice. Good evening, Mayor Garcia and Councilmembers Kimmy. Monique is from CCE. Jane, also human relations commissioner for the Sixth District. I'm honored to be able to talk a little bit about restorative justice tonight. I know that restorative justice is kind of a buzzword that gets thrown around.
Speaker 1: And so I wanted to give you all the opportunity to just hear like a one on one and how restorative justice is being used in our communities here. So to begin, I'd like to share this quote from Frederick Douglass that says, It is easier to build strong children than to repair broken men.
Speaker 1: And I would say, actually, people this is a central believed to the tenets of restorative justice. We want to build communities that are trauma informed, that center relationships, that provide alternatives to punitive responses and the harmful impacts that they have on people and offer opportunities for healing.
Speaker 1: To give an overview of what restorative justice is, restorative justice is a practice and a philosophy modeled from the traditions of First Nations people to prevent and address homes and grow strong communities. We use relationships as a foundation for this work and utilize a needs based framework when intervening in harm to create true accountability.
Speaker 1: If you look at the current ways that we respond to homes and crimes, our default is that we rely on punitive practices for the most part. Typically, a punitive approach asks What was the crime? Who committed the crime, and what punishment is warranted?
Speaker 1: And restorative justice model asks us to shift this paradigm and actually think deeply about who was harmed. What is the impact of the crime and the resulting needs and obligations that need to be met to make it right?
Speaker 1: So in short, harms, means and obligations. In this model, we're able to settle the needs of victims or people, people harmed and impacted community members to come to a place of true accountability for the responsible for those responsible for creating the harm.
Speaker 1: And so what does this look like in practice? So restorative justice models are being in. Implemented in a number of settings and are showing tremendous results. So in schools, we're using restorative justice to create communities that value relationships, that respond to behaviors in ways that are trauma informed, that keep students in school rather than suspending and expelling
Speaker 1: people and offer ways for youth and adults to be accountable to one another when conflict and harms occur in the juvenile justice setting. Restorative justice is used to divert youth away from a path of incarceration and system involvement to explore true accountability and uncover what the underlying needs are that may have contributed to any given offense.
Speaker 1: Families and community members are able to find healing with this process. And you think, given an opportunity to learn about the impact of their behavior on others and grow from their mistakes in communities, restorative justice and restorative processes are used to mediate conflict, to provide resolution to homes, to strengthen relationships, and to identify needs that community members
Speaker 1: need addressed. And so the connection to women, there are many connections to women, but I think the one that I'll touch on is that, as we well know, the burden that women carry when members of the community are removed because of incarceration or any removal from the community is a larger one.
Speaker 1: To bear a reliance on punitive measures in response to harms and crimes create more broken men, more broken people, rather than building strong children. And so women take on the emotional and actual physical labor, a feeling in the massive gaps when people are removed from communities.
Speaker 1: And in the case of children who are removed from communities due to incarceration or system involvement, women again serve in this crucial role in their children's lives to be the ones to take on the additional labor of repairing harm that our system is creating for our young people.
Speaker 1: So while this just scratches the surface, I encourage for us to do a deeper dove into what restorative justice means for our community. Many connections to actually the prior presentation around domestic violence as well, and many things to explore with regard to community safety.
Speaker 1: So thank you. And I would like to bring up my fellow commissioner, Jill Ferraro, to talk about homelessness. Good evening. Mayor Robert Garcia, City Council members thank you. It's always a pleasure to come in speak especially on behalf of something I'm very passionate about.
Speaker 1: Go here. Homelessness. So those four concepts that you're or those four terms you're seeing up there, housing, compassion, relationships and hope creation. I want to bring up the fact that without housing, which we all know about, we're hearing a lot about without compassion and without building relationship with those in our community who are experiencing homelessness and without
Speaker 1: hope creation. We are not going to help homelessness, and especially women with women in our community who are experiencing homelessness. The Department Health and Human Services have a homeless count that you can get this information from. But we're looking at female right now, 28%, male 71%, transgender 1%, and those who do not identify as well up there
Speaker 1: . But the reality is 28% is something we get in a homeless count. We also see in our homeless.
Speaker 2: Count of.
Speaker 1: 2017 from the Department.
Speaker 9: Of Health and Human.
Speaker 1: Services, some populations of unsheltered adults on their numbers were serious mental health illness for 51 substance use disorder 315 Victims of.
Speaker 2: Domestic violence 141.
Speaker 1: I wanted to bring up some stats, but I also want to bring up an amazing person to have permission to speak on her behalf this evening as permission. Sandra Greenman, who I met in my advocacy work working with our our homeless, those experiencing homelessness in our community, as well as all the different organizations.
Speaker 1: I her story is that she's a vet. She was in the Navy. US vet is where villages.
Speaker 9: Of Korea was, where she started to get her.
Speaker 1: Recovery and assistance from. But she served in our military and and she ended up homeless. The reality.
Speaker 2: Of what Sandra did.
Speaker 1: Thereafter was amazing. She comes from a background of domestic abuse, rape.
Speaker 9: Many different things that occurred in her.
Speaker 2: Background.
Speaker 9: As early as 16 years of age as a teenager.
Speaker 1: She went into the military, came out, ended up homeless, living in her car. So this is an example of someone who was living in her car who we probably wouldn't have got on the homeless count because she's living in a car.
Speaker 1: She didn't appear homeless. She took care of herself. She's military, very clean cut, very disciplined. However, she was still homeless. She ended up at the villages of Rio, where she began her recovery. And lo and behold, she has been four years clean.
Speaker 1: She has been a mentor. She's been working at the VA and she is as happy as can be, although she does have her days where I'll get a phone call or text. The reality of this story I bring up is because of this, even though we do have these numbers and we do want to take these numbers
Speaker 1: into consideration, by all means, we do have people in very vulnerable situations that are either on the brink of homelessness. But we do need to remember as well those who are poor. Those who could be poor with just one one family member losing a job.
Speaker 1: And with those reality the reality of that, I just want to make sure that. Not only do we remember and be inspired by people like Sandra. But to all of you out there, women and those who those of you who know women, which is everybody in here, there's a preventative part to homelessness.
Speaker 1: And that preventative part is to grab your sister, your mother, your neighbor, anyone female and that one in for domestic abuse that she was talking about. You make sure you also provide a support system, a mentorship. Because that's how this is going to get better.
Speaker 1: And so as much as you come up here and you gripe and you point your fingers at these people up here, have a civil conversation with them, meet with them, and then meet with your neighbors and also supply support there.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: All right. We are going to move on to the last topic of politics, and I want to say thank you to Carlos opinion, who is our District two legislative lead. She's been very busy all night, wandering around, taking care of the people in this room and has asked me to read through her slides.
Speaker 1: But I appreciate her taking the diligence to put this together for us. You know, women have come far in politics. We've seen a rise of strong advocate women who have fought for the freedom and equity of our nation.
Speaker 1: Over 500 women are running for office right now. This year alone, Long Beach has had and continues to have women who have shown leadership in advocating and inspiring, inspiring many young girls that someone just like them can make a difference in our city.
Speaker 1: Thank you to the council women that are here today who do that every day in their own districts. And I would be remiss if I didn't also say, of course, Eunice Sato and Beverly O'Neal, she was Beverly O'Neal was the president of my college when I was in college.
Speaker 1: And she really reminded me when she became mayor that we can be whoever we want to be. We have some amazing women, African-American women in this town. And when you're given 3 minutes to talk about a topic Carla really wanted to highlight these women.
Speaker 1: So the women you see in front of you, I don't need to read each of these for you, but of course, Bobbie Smith I would like to speak to, because she was the first African-American woman to serve as a Long Beach school board member.
Speaker 1: Back when I was going to school board meetings every week with my mom and learning about how to be an advocate for this community. I also love to bring up Vera Mulkey. She was a great example of being the first African-American chief of staff to city council member back when Clarence Smith was here.
Speaker 1: And of course, Doris Topsy Alford. I mean, we speak of her all the time. She's amazing woman. First African-American woman to be elected to the Long Beach City Council. And these women have all had not only great lives in the city, but have spent time really advocating for humans, for everyone in this community.
Speaker 1: And tonight, we really want to celebrate all the women who have and continue to be involved in Long Beach politics. And we don't mean politics as in only being a city councilperson, but politics and advocating for the things that are right and just for the for this community and for this world.
Speaker 1: These women and many more have been and are the pillar of our community. They are the women that have fought for our voices to be heard, to be taken into consideration and have brought change to Long Beach. I really want to thank you all for having us here tonight.
Speaker 1: This is, again, just a brief snippet of information about women in this city. And much of it was brought to us because they're topics that the community have brought to the Human Relations Commission to talk about at our monthly meetings.
Speaker 1: And we appreciate all of that advocacy that people are doing here in the city. The last thing I want to leave you with is women in the city are doing amazing things. You know, I could sit here and talk about artists in the city for hours, but something that's happening just next week on Friday night is T
Speaker 1: with Alice and me with another one of our commissioners, commissioner, Zoe Nicholson, who'll be doing her one woman show at the Beverly O'Neill Theater nicely enough here in town. And we would love to invite everyone to come. And if you would like a ticket for this great event.
Speaker 1: Many of the local politicians have helped to get free tickets for this event. Please find us up at the top at the end for this. And again, thank you to the council for giving us the time tonight.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you very much, Councilman Gonzales.
Speaker 2: I was going to just close it out real quickly and say one of the reasons we brought this up was because this month we have International Women's Day and it was a day to celebrate and honor the women that continue to build this country and to build the world to be a better place.
Speaker 2: And I needed to recognize that the Human Relations Commission and many of the people in that commission have been there for me in my hardest times. My new chief of staff, Dina, sort of on days, obviously, Carla and my colleagues on this council, you know, have really reminded me in times that have gotten tough that we.
Speaker 9: Stay with it.
Speaker 2: So that we can prove that tomorrow is going to be a better day for women, that it's going to get easier, and that we're going to have a more a deeper conversation around what what equity looks like and what having an equal voice looks like.
Speaker 2: And so I just want to recognize and thank all those that came before us and those that spoke tonight. So thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilwoman Gonzalez.
Speaker 9: But thank you to Councilmember Pearce for bringing this forward. And thank you, all of you ladies, for for making a really good, comprehensive report. I really love looking back at Long Beach and seeing what we've done and what we've been so successful at.
Speaker 9: But of course, as this is like the year of women, this could not be more timely in looking ahead to see what we have to do to be a little bit better. Not a little bit a lot better.
Speaker 9: A lot, much more. We have a lot of work to do. And I know that I served with some really incredible women here, and I'm really proud of this city for all the women sitting out there. It's right.
Speaker 9: You don't have to be a city council member to try to do some incredible things. And we hope that every one that's here really took this to heart and we can see even more forward.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Councilmember Wawrinka.
Speaker 7: Thank you for bringing this report forward. I remember a quote. I don't remember who said it, but it was the best thing that a father can do for his children is to love his wife. And I think that having a wife that is very understanding and having my daughter, who I have a daughter, see that relationship between
Speaker 7: me and my wife, I think she learned a lot in terms of what to expect from men and what to expect in relationships. When she would go out with a with a young man. I had many a conversation with some young men mentoring them in terms of how to treat my daughter.
Speaker 7: First of all, do you have a driver's license or do you have insurance? Just as an example. But I think that when it comes down to the treatment of women and we saw the stats that were so awful up there, is that sometimes, you know, we have to break that cycle and it's a cycle.
Speaker 7: And we as men sometimes have to take the lead ourselves and say we're going to break that cycle and be good to our women, be good to humankind, to people in general. Because when you're carrying two people, you're kind to everybody and everybody will benefit from your kindness.
Speaker 7: So I want to congratulate the Human Dignity Commission for bringing this forward. I hope we get a report every year. I think that would be a wonderful addition to our to our history Women's History Month or week every year to see how we're doing.
Speaker 7: And hopefully we can bring some of those stats down and make them a lot, a lot more acceptable. And we don't have to cringe every time we hear those awful statistics. Thank you for being here. Thank you for sharing.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Councilmember Andrews.
Speaker 11: Thank you, Vice Mayor. I don't know where that quote came from, but I think that was his own quote because I think it was a great quote. A lot of this I think it shouldn't have to be what we call it.
Speaker 4: On women's history.
Speaker 11: When I think should be women's every day should be a woman's mind. Because the fact that you guys this is what it's all about, you know, without you, you know, we caused by a man's world. But it would be nothing.
Speaker 11: Not what? That woman. So thank you, young women, for having this man. And we appreciate it so much. Thank you again.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilman Austin.
Speaker 10: Thank you. And I want to thank you for the presentation as well. It was a lot of very good, I think relevant information are presented here. Our Union Human Relations Commission does a wonderful job and I had an opportunity to meet with them a couple of months ago, maybe a few weeks ago, actually, and the time all
Speaker 10: comes together. But I'm very impressed with the work that you are doing and the impact that you're making on our city. I think that has a lot to do with the the makeup of this council. This I think there's more women on this council than ever before in history.
Speaker 10: I'm proud to serve with a number of very, very strong and competent women on the city council. And I think this is appropriate. The woman who had the most impact on my life was my mother. I think she raised me to be a very fair minded, strong young man.
Speaker 10: And today. Would have been her 68th birthday. She passed away two years ago. And so when we commemorate strong women, I think think about my mother every every single day. And I try to live my life as an example that she will want me to live by.
Speaker 10: So thank you very much for your presentation today.
Speaker 3: Thank you. And I'll just I'll just add that thank you to the presentation for scheduling this presentation. Thank you to the Human Relations Commission. I think it's important that we do recognize the contributions of folks. But I also think what stood out here and you know, and we see a bunch of recognition, but what stood out was
Speaker 3: really the highlighting the vulnerable folks in our society and really letting this moment serve as a call to action that we have to continue. You know, the thoughtful, data driven presentation that really calls us out and says we have to be about the business of rooting out oppression wherever it exists.
Speaker 3: And that and that we have a responsibility, frankly, to really look out for one another. And so I hear you. And I would encourage, you know, whenever we have these sorts of presentations, leave something for us to work on.
Speaker 3: Because, you know, I saw a lot of relevant things connected to a lot of the issues that, frankly, we're dealing with tonight. So thank you. Is there any public comment on this presentation?
Speaker 4: In raising your name.
Speaker 3: For the record, please.
Speaker 4: Larry. Good work because the address in writing to support this I do so from a rather. Unique perspective as circumstances would have it, though unfortunately I was unable to meet her in her later years because of her declining health.
Speaker 4: I had a great aunt. Excuse me. Who was this nation's first first lady. To graduate with a four year college degree. She did so parenthetically prior to meeting my great uncle. And went on to become one of the most outstanding.
Speaker 4: First Ladies. This country ever had. The timing of it, of course, it was equally unique. It happened. In the thirties. At which time the Fix the San Gabriel the sink, the fix these families Saint Gabriel Land Development Company, which was the paradigm by which they granted certain lands to the city of Long Beach, was, which were subsequently
Speaker 4: fashion into what became the reading stadium. Specifically warranted. The city attorney will tell you it's ethically warranted. The city to enter into an agreement with the then secretary of war. My great uncle. For the purpose of. Protecting the special Egis.
Speaker 4: Of. What would become potentially along these Marine Stadium and precluding it from falling into the hands of the likes of Robert Garcia. Gary DeLong. And the newest commissioner on the Coastal Commission. He has a far from dry dream of becoming of turning that into a a labor force where he would become the labor force for that and
Speaker 4: so forth. But it's specifically warrants to city to go in and protect. If those. Facilities. And of course, as I pointed out before, the U.S. attorney by the end of the year will be dealing with the criminally complicit.
Speaker 4: Based upon the records provided by the highly credible then Long Beach police chief, now L.A. County Sheriff Jim McDonald.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Good. You see no further public comment, members, please cast your vote. Okay, we've got one more. Our last public comment speaker.
Speaker 9: Oh, here we go.
Speaker 1: Just about the presentation. I think you and I have seen so much suffering happen because women had.
Speaker 9: To stay in relationships that were not good for them, but they had no place to go.
Speaker 1: And I have seen so much potential snuffed out.
Speaker 9: I have seen so much trauma in kids.
Speaker 1: Because that relationship.
Speaker 9: With that, you know, they were.
Speaker 1: They they had no financial independence. You know, this man who was abusing them was their only way to keep.
Speaker 9: A roof over their heads.
Speaker 6: And I cannot applaud what you're doing.
Speaker 9: Like more the fact that you're.
Speaker 1: Giving them a chance to get out of situations.
Speaker 9: Where their lives are at stake and their mental health is at stake is absolutely incredible.
Speaker 1: And I would even you know, I think it'd be really cool if we worked together or we.
Speaker 9: You know, there.
Speaker 1: Was a project to keep pushing for women's economic independence because.
Speaker 9: Financial abuse in relationships is not something that a lot of people are even aware of.
Speaker 1: Happens. But it's a very frequent tactic of control. And the more the women are.
Speaker 9: Economically.
Speaker 1: Empowered and the more that they have control over their own assets, the less vulnerable, you know, obviously they're going to be to predatory partners. And I think that I think that we use something really, really cool to work on.
Speaker 1: It's just an idea that came to my head.
Speaker 9: But thank you for your presentation and thank you for the work that you're doing.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Members, please cast your vote. I mean. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Item number 15, please.

Speaker 3: Thank you. Members, please cast your vote. I mean. Yes. Motion carries. Thank you. Item number 15, please.
Speaker 0: Item 15 is communications from council members. Subpoena. Councilwoman Price. Councilwoman Mango. Councilman Andrew's recommendation to require city manager and city attorney to review questions regarding a proposed Long Beach ordinance to enact rent control and report back to City Council on April 17, 2018.
Speaker 3: Councilmember Super Now.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Vice Mayor, and thank you to my council colleagues for signing onto this item. My comments are going to be very brief, and I'd like to ask my colleagues to keep their commentary to a minimum. We are coming off of two back to back meetings where we went past midnight and I think would be great to
Speaker 4: avoid a three peat tonight. Actually, I have to get Pat Riley credit. I think he has the trademark on that term. 3 p.m.. The other reason for brevity is the specific nature of this agenda item. It is simply a request for an informational report on a proposed ballot initiative.
Speaker 4: Unlike our last two lengthy items, the Louie and the Values Act. This item does not involve a council policy decision. It is simply a request for information. The request is for the city manager and city attorney to report back to us on April 17th, which is with as much detail as possible in that time frame.
Speaker 4: Finally, I would like to ask my councilor colleagues to agree to restricting public comment to a minute and a half per speaker. This is not an attempt to abridge anyone's First Amendment right. It's quite the opposite. With 3 hours of public comment during our last two council meetings, many people informed us they did not have a chance
Speaker 4: to speak because they were unable to wait the length of time necessary. Therefore, the abbreviated time for each speaker should give everyone a chance to share his or her comments.
Speaker 3: Councilmember Andrews. Wait until that day. Okay. He wants to defer. Okay. So we're going to line up and call for public comment at this time and I'm going to acknowledge the requests. Let me let me see how many people are lined up here.
Speaker 3: Yes. Just a moment before you begin. Okay. Clearly there is a lot of interest in speaking. So I will that translators will get double. We always do that. You'll absolutely get that. So we're going to we're going to respect the request so that everyone gets an opportunity to speak.
Speaker 3: So let's queue up 90 seconds and we'll have our first speaker.
Speaker 4: Good evening, Mayor. Council members. My name is Mike Murchison. My address is on record. I'm here on behalf of rental property owners, investors, people that care about this community. They have cared for a very long time. I want to thank the mayor and the council for being supportive of not supporting rent control.
Speaker 4: Thank you all for being on the record of saying no to rent control. And as councilman super nice said. And I'll do it faster than 90 seconds, Darryl. I'm asking this council to support a very straightforward item. Get the rental property owner our community back as fast as you can.
Speaker 7: The investors as fast you can. The answers to these questions. We need these answers so that we can explain.
Speaker 4: To everybody in Long Beach why this is bad policy. I encourage you to support this tonight. I encourage you to have a coming back April 17th. Thank you very much.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Good evening, Vice Mayor and City Council. My name is Anthony. Anthony Walker. I'm the managing broker of Buckingham Investments. I'm a local real estate broker and a housing provider. Well, I think we can all agree that improving the supply of affordable housing in our city needs to be a top priority.
Speaker 4: We must understand that rent control is not the answer. There are numerous examples within our own state and country that demonstrate rent controls, damaging effect, and not only the real estate industry, but also the very people that seeks to aid my business and the business of my clients is to provide clean, safe and in the vast majority
Speaker 4: of cases, affordable housing to the residents of this city. We are the opposite of the proverbial slumlords. This ordinance will immediately cease virtually all reinvestment into our existing renter communities, as landlords will have no incentive to improve our housing stock.
Speaker 4: The quality of living conditions will decline. Vacancies in rent control units are likely to rent only to the tenants with the highest incomes and credit, removing opportunity from those with the most need. The economic effect on our city must also be considered.
Speaker 4: Rent control would severely damaged the real estate industry and all related businesses in Long Beach, which make up a huge component of our local economy. The number of different skilled jobs required to sit for the sale finance, operation, maintenance, construction and management of our housing stock is immense.
Speaker 4: All of these workers risk unemployment as our market stagnates under rent control. Let us heed the warnings of our neighbors experience and the overwhelming agreement of economic economists on both sides of the political spectrum. Rent control will destroy what progress Long Beach has achieved in the 21st century.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your time. No. Mr. Lurch. Just a moment. Just a moment, Mr. Lawrence, before you begin. I know this is a sensitive issue, and there are very excited individuals on both sides. But respectfully, I would ask, do not hiss while anyone's speaking one way or the other so that we can conduct a very respectful meeting
Speaker 3: here. So just please show this respect in this moment. Thank you.
Speaker 10: Please. My name is Val Lerche, former vice mayor of the city. Before being on the city council, I had another life. For 30 years, I manage multiple family housing. Well, I'm active duty. I manage the facilities at base Petaluma.
Speaker 4: After leaving the.
Speaker 10: Military, I manage real estate for both profit and nonprofit organization. I was the chair of the Long Beach.
Speaker 4: Housing Authority for five years. I was a Los Angeles County Housing Commissioner for seven years.
Speaker 10: During my career, I managed property from Seattle to the Mexican border from Kansas City to Houston, Texas. I believe I do have some knowledge of this firsthand. Those cities and jurisdictions that had.
Speaker 4: Rent control I observed over the years.
Speaker 10: Did not work. That intended to do. And the rest of the.
Speaker 4: Gentlemen told me, we've said before this city just approved a land use element plan, which is.
Speaker 10: Heavily based on use of.
Speaker 4: Rental properties and multiple use family units.
Speaker 10: Many investors will not invest in rent controlled areas except for low income investors who rental housing.
Speaker 4: And which is always.
Speaker 10: Subsidized by the government. Long Beach has the lowest.
Speaker 4: Vacancy in 30 years. So it is obvious to.
Speaker 10: Me the market is being is bearing the cost of housing.
Speaker 4: Finally, imagine you have started a clothing business. The city comes and tells you. Thank you, Mr. much.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your call and continue to finish your thought. Thank you. Next speaker, please. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 0: Hi. Good evening. My name is Perry Pineda.
Speaker 9: And I'm.
Speaker 2: Actually here to speak on behalf of my.
Speaker 1: Dad. He's 72 years old and he.
Speaker 0: Recently overexerting himself so he couldn't be.
Speaker 9: Here.
Speaker 0: My dad.
Speaker 9: Fled Cambodia and was harbored here in.
Speaker 0: Long Beach and he was very thankful for the freedoms he received.
Speaker 9: Here as opposed to.
Speaker 0: Communist control in Cambodia.
Speaker 9: And he was very thankful for the free education.
Speaker 1: He received here.
Speaker 9: As well as help with housing that he received here. Six years, he took advantage of that. Very, very thankful for it. And after six years, he was able to.
Speaker 0: Achieve the American dream.
Speaker 1: He went to school.
Speaker 0: Graduated from Long Beach City.
Speaker 9: College, and within that timeframe, he started.
Speaker 2: Working for the county.
Speaker 1: Los Angeles.
Speaker 9: And was able to purchase a house for us. Before that time, we were all renters, six people.
Speaker 0: In a one bedroom. We know what it is to be a renter. We know the.
Speaker 9: Struggles.
Speaker 0: Of, you know, making the rent and rent going up and trying to fit as.
Speaker 1: Many people as you can in one place so that you can.
Speaker 0: Save as much money as you can. We understand.
Speaker 1: That. And we haven't forgotten that.
Speaker 9: So.
Speaker 0: In everything that my dad has done with a single income. I appreciate.
Speaker 1: The hard.
Speaker 9: Work that he put.
Speaker 0: In.
Speaker 1: Having received.
Speaker 9: All the graces of Long Beach City in.
Speaker 0: America in general.
Speaker 9: And he has worked very hard and was able to buy.
Speaker 3: Well, then conclude your thought. But thank you.
Speaker 9: He was able to buy a property here in Mr. Andrews District, and that is his retirement.
Speaker 0: So I just don't want.
Speaker 1: Him to lose that.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 8: My name is George Panetta. And I just want to remind the mayor, city council, that our.
Speaker 4: Country is a capitalist.
Speaker 8: Country. It's not a socialist country. I know we have some representatives from some socialist group, and I would like to remind you of that. My parents, my.
Speaker 4: Father.
Speaker 7: Fled Cuba.
Speaker 8: Which is a communist country, which is a form of socialism.
Speaker 7: Is the sister or brother sister of socialism.
Speaker 4: My mother fled El Salvador because of the.
Speaker 8: Civil war there, and they were the communists trying to take over the country of El Salvador. They came to this country because of the freedoms and the opportunity that this country gave them, the freedom to purchase property, the freedom to rent their property at whatever price they wanted.
Speaker 8: If their prices were too high, then they would have to lower their prices. We live in a capitalist country.
Speaker 7: Where we have free market.
Speaker 8: Rent control is a form of socialism that does not work. And I'm sure.
Speaker 7: You will do your due diligence in.
Speaker 8: Looking at cities like San Francisco, New York. So some people.
Speaker 4: Call it Beverly Hills. What about Beverly? Beverly Hills rent control has worked there. None of us could afford to live in Beverly Hills. May I add those of you that are.
Speaker 8: For rent control and use.
Speaker 4: Beverly Hills as a support? But anyway.
Speaker 8: Again, I, I think that that the market, you know, rents if somebody wants to charge you know a lot.
Speaker 4: Of so.
Speaker 3: That's been 90 seconds thank you for your thank.
Speaker 8: You very much appreciate it. Well.
Speaker 3: Let's go with this.
Speaker 4: Hello. My name is John Angel. I was born and raised in Long Beach and I've been in the housing industry for 45 years. Recipients of this measure are not being means tested, means testing means an examination into the financial state of a person to determine eligibility for public assistance.
Speaker 4: This measure this measure steals money from landlords and gives it to persons that may very well not need it. Does not make sense to only help people that need help. There are people that need help. Let's help those people.
Speaker 4: Let's not help everybody that doesn't need help. You can have a tenant. There's more wealthy and have more assets and income than the landlord that's going to receive rent control. This is very bad for the community as landlords will slow maintenance and stop improving properties.
Speaker 4: Property managing real estate is very time consuming and costly. Existing tenants will never move and new tenants will pay more. With no supply of available housing. This is economic injustice for all at its peak.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony. Mexican police.
Speaker 4: Mark Panetta is going to come at it from a different perspective. I own rental property and rent control areas as well as non rent control areas. And you know, at a high level, it just doesn't work. Rent control.
Speaker 4: Both economists on the left and the right agree that it doesn't work. When you have a relationship with a tenant under rent control, you have to be very unforgiving if they're late on the rent, whereas you might work more with a tenant that's a non rent control area, give them more time to pay, upgrade their kitchen, maybe
Speaker 4: put in some ground it in a rent control area, you extract the maximum and you put in the minimum. You know, that's just the way business works and it does change the relationship. Also, we heard about homeless the homeless crisis.
Speaker 4: I've housed six homeless veterans in rent control areas. I could not put one in a rent control here because just in case something doesn't work out, you have no way to to give notice to that tenant if it's causing a problem in that in that building.
Speaker 4: And we have a duty to keep a building safe for all of our tenants. And I thank you for your time.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next week, at least.
Speaker 1: Good evening, Council. Mayor Garcia. My name is Johnny Weir, and I'm the president of Better Housing for Long Beach. Oh, no boos. We do support review of this proposal, and I want to thank the council member that brought this to the forefront.
Speaker 1: I'm also here tonight representing my amazing tenants in District one, District two, District three, and District four. In fact, some of them are here tonight. Thank you for coming. If this ordinance is passed, those tenants will be displaced.
Speaker 1: And if housing affordability is the true bearer, there is countless research that rent control raises rents. Rent controlled cities have the highest rent in the country Santa monica highest in the nation. I would like every person here tonight when you leave here, the highest rate in the nation and you'll find they are all located in rent controlled
Speaker 1: cities. I cut this down to a minute. 300,000 people, renters over there we've vacated out of their apartments in New York when strict rent control laws came into place. So where did this tenants go of the 300,000 tenants go anyway?
Speaker 1: Stand up against rent control. Stand up.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Let's look at blues names.
Speaker 4: Pat Kennedy from Fifth District. Thank you, mayor and council members. I was here in 2005, 2006 talking about, you know, with the need for a housing trust fund. The city council passed a housing trust fund and said, we'll put $500,000 a year from the bed tax into the housing trust fund.
Speaker 4: But and the reason we did that was because people, homeless people are living in motels and contributing to the bed tax each year. However, there was a clause in there that said if available, and for some reason the city managers never found the money available for the housing trust fund.
Speaker 4: So we've never invested in a housing trust fund to build affordable housing. We haven't done inclusionary zoning. We haven't created linkage fees. So we have a city that's failed to provide leadership in terms of addressing this housing crisis.
Speaker 4: And it's not just the city. Obviously, the market has failed us also, if you look at the subprime mortgage. Couple of things I'd like to see if you're going to do some research. How many absentee landlords do we have in Long Beach?
Speaker 4: How many how many dollars from monthly rent end up in the local economy? And the final question is, what would be the increase in community safety if we stabilize rental communities? Thank you for your time.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next week, at least.
Speaker 4: A little Brian Matheson, resident of Long Beach. I read some very insightful comments on.
Speaker 10: The petition and now.
Speaker 4: Fully understand why rent control cities so huge declines in rental properties. But of all the pages of Byzantine rules and regulations, I found the introduction in Section two in the preamble the most damning. There are 15 subsections in Section two and only five offer bits of data to back up their imminent warning of doom.
Speaker 4: The other ten subsections appear to be made up and completely subjective. It doesn't seem right that unverified statements can be made without documentations and presented as fact. To their credit, they did use correct facts when they referenced the horrible housing problems in Los Angeles.
Speaker 4: But a laughable lapse of logic in the petition in Section two, A and B makes reference to the grave situation in housing in Los Angeles as a basis for bringing rent control to Long Beach. If there is a poster child for the ill effects of price fixing rent, it has got to.
Speaker 10: Be Los Angeles. Los Angeles is the city.
Speaker 4: You use to prove rent control does not work and makes the problem worse. Price fixing fair rent is the same as taking the wrong medicine and finding out the proposed cure is worse than the disease. So no matter the changes in the House, which you might consider to the petition, you still are price fixing.
Speaker 4: At the end of the day, you have a program that will turn away investors and developers. You will have a program that decreases property values for apartments as well as private homes, resulting in a decline in value forms.
Speaker 4: Going to the. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Sir, for your testimony. Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Even honorable council members and mayor. My name is Fred Sutton. I'm with the California Apartment Association. We represent housing providers throughout California and here in Long Beach. I want to thank the council for bringing forth this item.
Speaker 7: I think reviewing questions on this topic is incredibly important because if it's implemented.
Speaker 4: It will affect every single resident and person in this city. Price controls and eviction restriction policies are commonly associated with Byzantine bureaucracy, onerous requirements and counterproductive outcomes. It is important that clarity is obtained on some of the details as it will help us cut through the rhetoric.
Speaker 4: Community members should not be pitted against each other as we seek to find clarity on issues of shared concern. We thank the council members and we urge you to support reviewing these questions.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker.
Speaker 4: Please.
Speaker 0: An honor to Mayor Garcia and the city council.
Speaker 6: My name is Sybil Baldwin, and I am here for rent control in Long Beach. I am a child development.
Speaker 0: Supervisor with a Long Beach Unified School District. And I just wanted to share the impact that Long Beach.
Speaker 6: Without rent control has.
Speaker 0: Affected our Long Beach Unified Schools and our child development centers. We have over 25 child development centers under Long Beach Unified School District.
Speaker 9: Where we have closures.
Speaker 6: Because our families are leaving, letting us know they can't afford to live in Long Beach. Our enrollment in our and our.
Speaker 1: Elementary schools and all of our schools.
Speaker 2: Are affected.
Speaker 0: By the fact that our.
Speaker 1: Families cannot afford to live in Long Beach. They have left and we have classrooms closing.
Speaker 0: And I'm just here to ask.
Speaker 1: For your support for rent control in Long Beach so that we can provide the educational opportunities for our early.
Speaker 0: Early childhood.
Speaker 1: Children all over Long Beach and in our schools.
Speaker 0: To make it affordable, to.
Speaker 1: Live in Long Beach and.
Speaker 6: To give us rights.
Speaker 1: Thank you so much.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Next speaker, please.
Speaker 3: Very effective message in under 60 seconds, I might say. Thank you. Next speaker, please step away.
Speaker 4: And so the Democratic Socialists of America, Long Beach. I'm going to be very quick here because unfortunately, apparently, Darryl, despite only contending counsel three times a week and not holding office hours, doesn't want to listen to all of us.
Speaker 4: The elements of a local housing crisis can be summed up as this affordability, supply and habitability. The supply issue was addressed best by the land use element. Affordability is a more complex issue given the parameters of capitalism. Rent control is just one tool used to address affordability by ensuring that the rents paid by the working poor who
Speaker 4: cannot buy but also do not receive assistance from the federal government, can stay inside the city less strict and therefore less effective. Tools for including the use of contractor development agreements are already being employed by the City of Long Beach and are not doing the job.
Speaker 4: The problem of habitability remains largely unaddressed by this council, but it remains a serious public health and equity issue. My questions are as follows What ever happened to the preemptive inspection program? Wait. Why is this council still being concerned about the marketability of the Long Beach housing stock?
Speaker 4: This myopia is at best helping heal local housing bubble and is at worst a sign that you're ignoring your primary responsibility as a council, protecting the rights of the residents and not property. We all know that the large percentage of the parasitic landlord class here have 714 area codes, and frankly, their return on their investment should do
Speaker 4: the last thing you are concerned about, especially given the fact that, unlike them, we actually vote on your on your elections. Where are the increased calls for housing inspectors are credibility poor can be directly tied to the massive cuts the city has made to the city of Long Beach's workforce.
Speaker 4: Without it put more housing inspectors to ensure the safety and health and safety of our residents, we again are at the mercy of the private sector doing that. Engage in a race to the bottom.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 4: And finally, if they can't afford a fixer six, how.
Speaker 3: Come they have an excuse to please?
Speaker 1: Good evening. My name is Sandra Krall and I reside in the third district. Actually, I want to thank you for your foresight tonight in preparing so thoroughly for the coming of rent control. Collecting relevant information gets the city ready to act as soon as the measure is passed.
Speaker 1: And it can also help to dispel some of those scary scenarios that are already being spun by the opponents. And I sincerely believe that this measure will pass. I'm getting enthusiastic signers to the petitions in the north part of Long Beach, in the downtown area and on the east side.
Speaker 1: As a member of the faith community and a church that is on the east side, most of whose members are I won't say most, but a large number of our members are property owners. And they're eager, eager to sign these petitions even are the landlords in in the congregation, because these are the local landlords.
Speaker 1: They have relationships with their tenants. They treat them fairly. They want to keep their properties rented and at a rate where they can keep up their improvements on it, but also get a fair return on their investment. So I sincerely hope that you will.
Speaker 1: The agenda item tonight.
Speaker 2: Truly does.
Speaker 1: Yield the impartial data and clarification it claims to.
Speaker 3: Seek. Thank you for your testimony next week at this.
Speaker 4: Before I begin, I would like to point out I don't think that Council member Andrews is aware that he's blocking the view of the clerk from here. Thank you, sir.
Speaker 3: That's the problem.
Speaker 4: Yeah. Garry Sheldon, again, before you and I've already lost 20 seconds of time.
Speaker 3: All right, you get that.
Speaker 4: That you have seven pages of questions here. I hope we're not limited to those questions to be considered as this goes to the staff, for your information. The council has it's not a policy, at least an urge to have less than 60% of the city as renters and more than 40% as owners.
Speaker 4: Somehow to shift that that paradigm, to use that word again. That's going to take the changing of thousands, tens of thousands of units of housing from renting to owning. And there's only so many tools in the basket. One of those is condo conversions.
Speaker 4: And I don't know if we'll ever solve it through condo conversions, except for one thing. I think you're probably going to learn that this rent control ordinance could result in the loss of rental units. And what will those units become?
Speaker 4: They'll become owned units. And so what you've got here is the opportunity to ask staff to report to you if we get rent control, which would be a good thing if we're really honest about trying to convert renters to owners, then we need to know what is the quantity.
Speaker 4: That rent control could change that paradigm here in Long Beach. Are we going to get maybe 20,000 condo conversions, 50,000 condo conversions? So that's a question that isn't anywhere in this list which could back you up for voting for rent control.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 7: Good evening. My name is tonight Ken Faye from the sixth District. Oh, man, this is crazy. Well, I just had a guy come up here and somehow masquerade the right wing death squads in El Salvador who can't fight with Romero and say they're a socialist.
Speaker 7: I don't even I'm.
Speaker 4: I'm I'm I missed that part. And then I had another guy who, you know, I thought, this is.
Speaker 8: A city, you know, built by veterans. I had another guy live. He just said he would rent to veterans.
Speaker 4: Because, well, rent control.
Speaker 8: It would be kind of hard to get them out. But, you.
Speaker 1: Know.
Speaker 4: I mean, maybe I was.
Speaker 7: In the same same chambers.
Speaker 8: Anyways. As you can see, I'm an African-American.
Speaker 7: It's a beautiful thing. And I bring that up because as a part of the black community here in Long Beach.
Speaker 8: It is a declining one. 6037 people, according to the.
Speaker 7: US Census of African-American origins, left the city. Maybe that's because 73% of the black population in the city are renters, and with the fluctuation in rent prices, we are most impacted, going from 14% of the population of the city to now 12%.
Speaker 7: So being that as in May, we need rent control. We need rent.
Speaker 4: Control because we don't need to be.
Speaker 7: Evicted from our buildings for Airbnb. We don't need to be evicted for our buildings for people who want to have demographic change in particular neighborhoods in this city, we need rent control. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Campaign next speaker, please.
Speaker 12: All right? Yeah.
Speaker 3: I hope we don't get extra time for the claps in the middle, so let's just keep the moving.
Speaker 4: Thanks. Thank you. My name is Peter Hart, and I want to give you a face for the mom and pop of the world that have invested in Long Beach. I believed in Long Beach. I came here from Chicago, but 30 years ago, and I chose Long Beach because I believed in this city.
Speaker 4: And I invested all of my life's work and earnings into a housing unit so that I could perhaps live a good life here in Long Beach and retire. If this goes through, it will be taken from me, period.
Speaker 4: I believe that this is the United States where we have a freedom of choice. This takes it away and it puts on the backs of people that did nothing wrong except invest in Long Beach to subsidize the all the social ills that we're facing today.
Speaker 4: As far as, you know, housing issues. So I just ask that we look at this in a clear way and don't put social injustice on the backs of people that have invested here in Long Beach. Thank you.
Speaker 3: As we speak, the police.
Speaker 0: Good evening.
Speaker 9: And thank.
Speaker 1: You, Vice Mayor and council members.
Speaker 2: My name is Johanna Cunningham.
Speaker 1: And the.
Speaker 2: Executive director for the.
Speaker 1: Apartment Association, California Southern Cities. Tonight, I would like to thank the City Council for their thoughtful approach.
Speaker 2: To taking time to review the questions that have been submitted regarding.
Speaker 1: The proposed rent control ordinance, the negative impact and burden that this ordinance will place on the city.
Speaker 2: Of Long Beach.
Speaker 1: On development, and on the small property owners, deserves to be explored. Many of our owners did invest many years ago, and the majority of them were.
Speaker 9: And.
Speaker 1: Still are the work force that this ordinance claims to protect. The workers, your workers, the Long Beach workers, teachers, nurses, maintenance, grocery, hotel, retail, bus drivers, etc. Each of our owners invested in this city and this industry as part of their retirement goals, goals that are now being threatened.
Speaker 1: We encourage you to be thoughtful about all, including small property owners, that will be impacted because even those who are relying on this income.
Speaker 2: To take them to their and to their retirement years.
Speaker 1: Will be impacted. So tonight, I'm asking that you vote in favor of reviewing these proposed questions.
Speaker 9: And thank you for your attention.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Good evening. My name is Josh Butler, executive director of housing Long Beach, and I am one of the proponents of this measure to bring rent control to the city of Long Beach. And I want to.
Speaker 7: Thank the council members for bringing this item forward. Thank you, Councilmember Supervisor, and thank you to Mr. Murchison and the landowner to help write this item. We think it's great for.
Speaker 4: Understanding that this is commonly referred to as a 9 to 1 to report. This is something that the Council is allowed to do. Elections Code Section 91 to states that quote during the circulation of the petition or before deciding to adopt the ordinance or put it on the ballot.
Speaker 4: The legislative body may refer the proposed initiative measure to a city agency or agencies for a report on such matters as fiscal impact, effects on consistency with the city's general and specific plan, effects on land use, impact on funding and infrastructure.
Speaker 4: So it is my understanding that you all have three options once we bring the signatures into once the city clerk certifies those signatures. Option one is you can place it on the ballot. Option two is you can make it law.
Speaker 4: Option three is to ask a set of questions under elections code, section.
Speaker 7: 9 to 1 two. So we thank you for initiating that this evening.
Speaker 4: And we look forward to all the questions that the council members.
Speaker 7: Have, and we can get that out of the way now so that when we turn the signatures in.
Speaker 4: We can move toward certification as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 5: Act and act.
Speaker 1: Can we fight President of District One? I'm really fortunate in that I have subsidized housing. But every day I see the struggles for other seniors and people in our community.
Speaker 5: Who don't.
Speaker 1: Have nice landlords. There's a lot of profit being taken out of our community. The goal of landlords is to invest, to make money. A lot of landlords are coming into our community and that is their major goal. We're seeing it in the conversion of units to Airbnb.
Speaker 1: We're seeing it in the corporate landlords that are coming in. A lot of the landlords in our community are absentee landlords. I would really like.
Speaker 6: To add an inquiry.
Speaker 1: How many absentee landlords that we have? I think that's important for us to know. So we look forward to having an open, honest discussion about rent control and how this can really make our community inclusionary and engage in the equity process so that we can keep the valuable, valuable population that we have in our diversity and equity
Speaker 1: across the board. Thank you all.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Hello. My name is Deena. I live in the second district.
Speaker 6: I'm an organizing member of the Long.
Speaker 9: Beach Tenants Union, and I'm here in support of the rent control ordinance, the proposed rent control ordinance.
Speaker 1: I'd like to thank you again for.
Speaker 6: Proposing these questions so that we can get the conversation started about rent control in our community. We have for decades understood that the relationship between landlord and tenant is one that requires regulations from our habitability habitability laws to our Fair Housing Act.
Speaker 0: These regulations have become an.
Speaker 1: Integral part of our political.
Speaker 6: System because we recognize that the.
Speaker 1: Skewed bargaining power in this relationship by the decisions of one landlord could determine the outcome of one or more people's lives is important. So this decision, the decisions that lenders make, can determine whether or not people have roofs over their heads, whether they can afford to pay for food and other necessities after paying for their rent, how
Speaker 1: many jobs.
Speaker 6: They need to work to make up the difference, and what their health outcomes will be. One of the other few places we see relationships with this power.
Speaker 1: That can have great impacts on someone's life.
Speaker 6: Is an employer and employee relationship. And in that case, we have extensively regulated those relationships to prevent an abuse of power and protect the most vulnerable party in that contractual relationship.
Speaker 1: And so additionally, we have seen a false narrative of mom and pop landlords as vulnerable stakeholders in this discussion, while ignoring the real.
Speaker 6: Estate speculators who are driving the housing crisis.
Speaker 1: The mom and pop landlords are, of course, guaranteed a fair return on.
Speaker 6: Their investment by law, even in rent regulating cities, and continue to make well above a fair return in such cities.
Speaker 1: For any economic decisions through the plight of small landlords allows.
Speaker 6: Critics to question rent control without addressing the prevalence of corporate real estate speculation. There are, in.
Speaker 1: Fact, corporate.
Speaker 6: Real estate speculators in San Francisco that profit extensively by converting.
Speaker 3: Thank you so much for your testimony. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Next week at least.
Speaker 2: Thanks to the city council and the vice mayor. My name is Catherine Cox. I'm speaking as a second district voter and a member of the renter majority in Long Beach. I want to address some of the misinformation I've seen and heard tonight.
Speaker 1: Number one, rent control is bad for everyone. This is patently false. Just as this housing crisis does not impact everyone equally, neither does rent control. Displacement overwhelmingly affects low income communities of color. And in the 13 California cities that have passed rent control, these measures have prevented low income tenants from being displaced as market rents rise.
Speaker 1: That's according to a study by the Urban Displacement Project. Number two, rent control raises rents.
Speaker 2: Landlords raise rents.
Speaker 1: If this were true, the real estate developers in the room would be out there collecting signatures with us. The housing crisis is caused by land and housing speculation. Rent control. One can't help these rising costs, but it can curb the devastating displacement.
Speaker 2: That we're seeing in Long Beach.
Speaker 1: Number three, landlords aren't responsible for rising rents and shouldn't be punished with rent control regulations. This is opposed to rent control isn't a punishment.
Speaker 2: It's a protection for vulnerable renters. We as a community should not.
Speaker 1: Have to bear the burden of displacement and neighborhood instability so that a single industry can profit unfettered by regulation. Displacement causes trauma to our communities, its neighbors, our neighbors from their families, homes, schools, places of.
Speaker 2: Worship and.
Speaker 1: Community services. I ask the City Council to support the.
Speaker 2: Voters as we move.
Speaker 1: For affordable.
Speaker 2: Housing. Just because eviction and other renter protections in Long Beach. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your.
Speaker 12: But the truth.
Speaker 7: Obviously I have no say on whether this goes on the ballot or not. I just want to dispel the stereotype, number one, that the landlords are all parasites trying to take advantage of their tenants. When I bought my four plex in 2004, I thought I was on Easy Street and I would be living free and clear for
Speaker 7: a long time. That's not the way it works. I don't know if you realize this, but the average housing stock in Long Beach is about the 1920s. Have you ever tried to take care of a building that was built in the 1920s?
Speaker 7: This is my stack of receipts from 2017. I had the same from 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013 all the way back to 2004. I am very hard trying to take care of that building and in the meantime, my taxes.
Speaker 7: I don't know who said that they're only going up by 1%. But in 2015, 2016, according to Zillow, it was seven and a half. Part of the reason the prices are going up has nothing to do with landlords being greedy.
Speaker 7: It has to do with the fact that people like me over the last 14 years haven't been adding anything to the rent. And I'm sorry, but there's a point where we have to catch up. Otherwise the building will be sold and my tenants would be homeless because quite frankly, it's on 5000 feet of land.
Speaker 7: Somebody could do something better with it than I could. Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: But evening, everyone. My name is is that Velez, and I am a resident of the First District. I am one of many affected by a 60 day notice. I stand here with all my neighbors and friends to fight for our rights.
Speaker 1: I'm currently pregnant and I have to move by me.
Speaker 5: I will be five months pregnant when?
Speaker 1: When they have to move. I have been exposed to chemicals of pain and risk. That was done by me, by the new owners. Beachfront properties took no consideration in the news. Notices that they were going to remodel our apartments due to the smell of paint and rose grinding.
Speaker 1: I have headaches and coughing and I cramp every once in a while. I have become good looking for places to live, but I have found nothing new.
Speaker 7: The area.
Speaker 1: I do not want to move because all my doctor's appointments have already been sent. I already have my hospital where I have my baby. I hope my representatives can make a difference not only in the life of my town, but the life of other children who are being pushed out and exposed to toxic chemicals due to the
Speaker 1: way these companies are operating. I hope these companies are held accountable for their actions.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Next, could you please? Well, my name is Paul Babcock. I live in the fifth District. I own a duplex rental in the first District. Purchased that through blood, sweat and tears. I'm trying to make a return on my unit.
Speaker 4: Rent still go down in 2008 when the economy crashed. I had already rent 300 a month.
Speaker 8: Per unit on the two units. I'm still at that.
Speaker 4: Same rent as the man said. Expenses are going up, taxes are going up. And I don't wish to. I understand the plight of some people, but I don't wish to have that solved on my back. Our expenses include monies that were invested to remodel our properties.
Speaker 4: We'd like to have that return recognized or that investment recognized and considered as an expense, unlike the measure that's in front of you is excluded and there are protections for eviction. It's under California state law. The city attorney is well aware of that.
Speaker 4: So hopefully that'll bring out the address, the notion that there's no protections for renters. Thank you.
Speaker 12: Thank you. Thank you. Let's go to Bruce.
Speaker 1: My name is Teresa Alvarado. I've lived in Long Beach since 1954. My parents worked for the Unified School District, and I've lived and worked in Long Beach the majority of my life. I've been a renter and an owner, and I feel deeply rooted to Long Beach and a stakeholder in what happens.
Speaker 1: My husband, Paul, just spoke. We have a duplex. We never intended to become real estate moguls or be millionaires from from owning that property. But this ordinance, if it's passed, is unfair to small property owners. It's poorly written.
Speaker 1: It assumes that in 2016 and 2017, the base years, there was a fair rate of return. In our situation, we haven't raised rents in many years and so we barely, if at all, break even. And now in order to do improvements that are needed and to recover, we need to be able to raise the rents accordingly, not
Speaker 1: to gouge anybody, but to just get a fair return.
Speaker 2: So that we can protect our investment.
Speaker 1: The result of this passes.
Speaker 2: Is that we will be directly.
Speaker 1: Subsidizing our tenants who are not.
Speaker 2: Needy or not, for by.
Speaker 1: Any means it will come out of our pockets and we are retirees with fixed income. So please don't pass the ordinance as written. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. That's what the police. Hi there, Jodie in seventh District. I first want to dedicate this to the people who are working double shifts right now to pay their next rent payment and the rate increase. I would also like to acknowledge Carol Price and my wife who have brought this forth.
Speaker 4: We're very grateful.
Speaker 7: That this is being brought to us so that we can dispel some of the myths that you see here tonight.
Speaker 4: So let's get some numbers here right now. Let's talk about the Stanford University.
Speaker 7: Study on rent control that happened in.
Speaker 4: November of 2017. There were multiple rounds of publication circulation that ended up trying to frame.
Speaker 7: This as rent control is bad.
Speaker 4: But let's look at the numbers. So actually, when the study first came out in November 2017, there was a net $2.1 billion.
Speaker 7: Benefit to renters in San Francisco.
Speaker 4: And there were also benefits net to.
Speaker 7: The landlords at.
Speaker 4: The very worst. There was no effect on the rental.
Speaker 7: Market whatsoever in San Francisco, as studied at Stanford University, this is.
Speaker 4: NPR data. What's interesting to note is that the actual benefits for tenants were cited as $7.085.
Speaker 7: Billion, and that's based on.
Speaker 4: The fact that they were able to afford the.
Speaker 7: Rents, they were able to build what they were able to save that money. What's interesting about that number is that that is only for one specific year, 1994. They didn't count any renters before that or after that. So there are literally billions of dollars in benefits to tenants in wealth building.
Speaker 4: And the best part about this is that the study.
Speaker 7: Also concluded that landlords didn't end up feeling any harmful effects. They continued to get a fair return on their properties. So thank.
Speaker 4: You. Please review these photos very much.
Speaker 3: Next week piece.
Speaker 1: Hi. My name's Annie NC. I am from District one, Lena Gonzalez's district, and I don't even know where to start with one a minute and a half. Should I start talking about the gentrification that's happening in Long Beach with the help of Robert Garcia?
Speaker 1: Should I talk about how the homeless the homeless issue between properties as my neighbors are all here, just bombed my building. I've been living there for 17 years. I go to school, I work, I'm doing the best I can.
Speaker 1: I do the best I can. I haven't seen my dad in three weeks. Why? Because he's in his fifties. Because he had to get another job to pay for the rent increase they are renovating and all they're doing is painting.
Speaker 1: Why are you so afraid of rent controlled? Because it can exploit us now. Because we can't take those out. Don't. And let's just be clear. They go into neighborhoods, to poor neighborhoods. You you choose to buy poor apartments and then you paint it and you double the price.
Speaker 1: And then you're saying that you are investing in this. We pay your buildings, we put the money in your pockets and stop acting like you're doing us a favor. And also, I just wanted to say thank you. I was giving you don't forget, these people are going to work at three, five in the morning to pay.
Speaker 1: What are you guys going to your house? So you're like rich house. Was you rich pockets? These are working class people that you're kicking out. I know these are working class people. And we also vote. We are all looking into how we're going to vote for Robert Garcia for our representatives.
Speaker 1: And I hope Lena supports this because this is all your district. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Speaker, please.
Speaker 0: Good evening. Good evening, Mayor Garcia.
Speaker 1: Councilwoman Ms.. Gonzalez. Everybody else. I would like to start off by introducing myself. My name is Kimberly Navas.
Speaker 0: I was born and raised in Long Beach. I am currently living in District one.
Speaker 1: And I say currently because sadly I will have to leave my city soon. I have lived in Long Beach my entire life. Long Beach is home to my family and I. I have been living in the same apartment for 20 years and out of nowhere the owners of my building evicted.
Speaker 2: All its tenants. And now that my.
Speaker 1: Family have to look for a new place, we come to find out it's nearly impossible to stay in Long Beach due to such high rent. We need.
Speaker 0: Rent control. Long Beach is.
Speaker 1: Home and I have to leave because my family can't afford it. I went to.
Speaker 2: International Elementary, which is.
Speaker 1: Now Oropeza Elementary.
Speaker 2: I went to.
Speaker 1: Jefferson Middle School and I am second generation Long Beach. Wilson graduate. I had the opportunity to leave my city after graduating, but I decided there is no place like home. With the help of Long Beach Promise, I am currently a student at Long Beach City College.
Speaker 1: Just like you both, my goal is to graduate from Cal State Long Beach. But because of such high rent prices, I am forced to leave and relocate and pursue my education somewhere else. I have a younger sister who one day I wish to see graduating from Wilson High School and become the third generation.
Speaker 1: But because we no longer can afford our home, we might never see that day with the cost of rent and property management evicting their longtime tenants. People are deciding to leave Long Beach not because they want to, but because they are being forced to leave the city they know as home.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Good evening, my. I live in the eastern one. My name is Christina. Mine. I haven't lived for 26 years. I'm here because my family and 25 more families from our building are being picked to a beach from Hong Kong beachfront.
Speaker 1: And different companies like this are kicking people out for Long Beach. They are raising the rents. They not be to they can't afford to pay higher ends. This is our city. We love our city families. Ah, this is.
Speaker 1: Sorry. I'm so terribly sorry. Because they cannot for pay rent. It's so heartbreaking to see seniors crying. To see where I'm going to go sleep tomorrow. Because I don't have money to move because they. This is our city councilwoman, Lena Gonzalez.
Speaker 1: Mayor Robert Garcia, people like me who fought for you to represent us. We need your help. Your Latinos need your help. So please do something for us because we know we make the right decision to put you guys in there.
Speaker 1: So we still believe in you guys. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. And just a moment, please. That's just a moment before you begin. Mr. City Attorney. So I have a request from some people behind the dais. Can we just sort of highlight what the scope of this motion is tonight so people can speak to it?
Speaker 7: Certainly the motion this evening, as proposed by the council, is to refer a list, I think a six and a half page list of specific questions regarding the initiative ordinance that is currently being circulated. There is no action that the city council can take this evening either for or against rent control.
Speaker 7: This is strictly a request for information at this time.
Speaker 3: So just to be clear, this is, you know, there's no action, there's no ordinance before us for the city council to consider. I just want to make sure that that's out there clear. City council will not be taking an up or down vote tonight on a rent control ordinance.
Speaker 3: Just want to be clear. Next speaker, please. Thank you.
Speaker 1: Good evening. My name is Cynthia. Jesus, and I live in the second district. Mayor Garcia, City Council members. My time's cut short, so I'm just get to the point. This poster is from 1979, and the title says People who can afford to live here should move someplace else.
Speaker 1: This was from the press telegram sent by president, member of the Lumbee City Council. Now there's a war going on in Long Beach. This war amounts to one big eviction notice for the elderly, the disabled, for people on fixed incomes, for minorities, for unemployed and underpaid working people of all races.
Speaker 1: Long Beach Master Plan calls for righting the city of individuals families that don't have a lot of money to spend. Instead, higher income consumers are being invited to frolic in a new landscape shopping malls, condominiums, racket clubs, Jacuzzis.
Speaker 1: This new landscape is evidence of a city economy geared to profits rather than humaneness. It's 2018, but yet we still have the same problem. So, I mean, it's time to wake up and do something about it. I know you guys are just listening and all.
Speaker 1: They're not going to vote, but at the end of the day, you guys do have the power to make your city better and make life not same easier, but make it comfortable for not only the family but the children that are going to be a future of Long Beach.
Speaker 1: Hopefully, if not, they're going to be in Kentucky or somewhere else where they can afford to rent. So thank you for your time.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next week, Bruce.
Speaker 4: Translation of a chance.
Speaker 3: A sure thing. Let's double up the time for trying it for interpretation. Thank you for seeing.
Speaker 1: Me emulate this Haslemere. Giving up royal control the rent that it is a local who stole from me. I mean, it's a local news. The publisher for me, the originals. It's just on the condition it is lucky. Opposite a member of a mental institution because your.
Speaker 0: In my venue.
Speaker 1: I'm Sally Everest. You're another MIA for the popular Missy Variety apology album. What the hell? He was in our consolation parody. Mr. Strahovski up the near you several venues in Ethiopia under religious apartheid. Mr. Dunham, the Rwandan military see them there.
Speaker 1: Bill Gigaba, the M.C. Anton of Anthem. Ms.. De la Renta. No, it's important, I think. But when we dramatically opening up in circuit, we see who's psychology come anticipo zero mal your stupid portrait, Mrs. Adams. People forget the personal things.
Speaker 4: So, hello. My name is Letitia Duma. I come here to support rent control and just cause eviction. I was evicted unjustly for fighting for my rights. These are some of the conditions I was in, in my apartment. The ceiling fell on me.
Speaker 4: There were snakes that came out of the restroom. I wouldn't sleep because I had to take care of my children and this process. I had to pay for a motel to protect my. My, my children. I lost my two jobs because the owners would lie to me and tell me that they were going to do a fumigation
Speaker 4: , but they never did. I would pay thousands of dollars for electricity because they would rob my electricity from my building for other units. This is also recorded in the city. I would pay 975 for rent and the electricity bill was 8198.
Speaker 4: Everything I pass and the apartment and the light.
Speaker 8: Bill caused me to have stress.
Speaker 4: And some of my children have psychological problems due to this. It was it was a nightmare. And I found depression. I also got sick from my gallbladder. I had to have a surgery. And I also had to also is very stressed up to this day, my daughters and son, I can still find a place due to the
Speaker 4: fact that there.
Speaker 8: Is no.
Speaker 4: Housing available. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony. And let's look at this.
Speaker 1: When I started. Murray Anthony, Antonio, your up there controlled our entire brigade. We will not departamento they will not a camera. And this cannot allow to elaborate on what they want. One sec. West America is my manager gave me a camera, the Departamento de Medici in the Gambia, but still getting Occupy out of me.
Speaker 1: This and on the power of mercy internment they single and your customers? We are on Siendo la. This is mutual case. They are not neutral animal person.
Speaker 4: Hello, my name is my Antonia.
Speaker 5: And my.
Speaker 1: Goal is have been no monopoly or control.
Speaker 4: I come to us for rent control together.
Speaker 1: Rent handling department didn't have a camera because.
Speaker 4: I rent a11 bedroom apartment.
Speaker 1: And the parliamentary looks cannot allow they have labor is not what the UN do. I want them to remain.
Speaker 4: In the room with my daughter. There's the ceiling is leaking.
Speaker 1: If the baby Armani had to make. I'm going to the parliamentary committee.
Speaker 4: I ask the manager to move me to another unit, but they're charging me 1200 a year.
Speaker 1: Get them in control. You're not trabaho e look at your thing. All the little guy. Your circle is at your tratando competition director.
Speaker 4: And I would like for there to be rent control due to the fact that I don't not work and I just survive half of what I make.
Speaker 1: Because I'm a young single with a mother Mexican.
Speaker 4: And if I try to move again just to get a new apartment, it's going to there aren't going to be a dozen, 100.
Speaker 1: It with billable, hardworking man. Okay. You are not going to see some of those times that people will control the rent.
Speaker 4: And I ask you to support the people as they ask for rent control.
Speaker 5: And I.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you. Next week, the first thing when I'm not.
Speaker 13: Just the number of hassles, but I want you, we will see that. Yes, there's a street in law. Ultimately, my mother is real macabre, though. There's a lot of things so center the Esperanza responsibility e is move pocket the ample estate loans would be must also mammoth anesthetizing little of owners i.e. local school of permanent purpose plastic
Speaker 13: was over.
Speaker 5: But I'm.
Speaker 1: Okay. My name is this Bravo. I live on 10th and theater district one he looking.
Speaker 5: Good.
Speaker 13: Thing.
Speaker 1: Daniel he's he's been living there for 20 years and recently he received a 60 day notice to move out. The beachfront properties have started to do their renovations in which they started painting and covering the windows. While he's been living there.
Speaker 13: He was left of a no no center. No the island. But a limping. He. You place the fiscal in control of parliament and at the empl. It was when.
Speaker 1: He said that with the windows covered, it's really hard to breathe in there. There's no air circulation. And he's been looking for a new place. But it's really hard to find a new a new place to live in 60 days.
Speaker 13: It was rehearsal for that for you seniors. How you control the rental. He installed the glasses.
Speaker 1: And thank you. If you do support rent control. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Let's look at this.
Speaker 1: Hi. My name is Guadalupe Rios. And when us not just calls her her little girl, this year will be doing me apartamento Ms.. The U.S. Attorney's Cassie Daniels. Amitabh Mian Mandela Notification Center. Yes. You're not doing well for a proposed idiot.
Speaker 1: Jesse. Don't clean up responsibility party for indoor girls. The problem is your age only party better accompany Anthony No Rosa Apartamento Don't nominate a particular center Poor woman All the name here we have a serious close Apartamento system in Muller's condition.
Speaker 1: This work also in La Renta Turtle no more mind your condo telecom pioneer There is not a castle in Mikasa Leo in know Newcastle initials in le Carré you will put up one particular track working miserable life. In the meantime, you see no melancholy you can be a joy to look at can be transformed by us.
Speaker 1: But it's Alfredo and not asthma. At the Liverpool airport April I would at all look Italian construction this purple is tan is on chemicals can not also line you can weather we will do quo but I just killed whether we meet competitors conduct on this camp whether we be a status quo to look after the animals under
Speaker 1: Lisbon the Luna casa no policy equals animals being hello dancer Lucas Lucas Cousteau cannot you know want temper tantrums in the scenario Camilla's current can know either annoy this hello who as you that your Bambi and be one of the distrito eunuch is here I catalyst concealer go by the protection of the loss interests is corporate cooperatives
Speaker 1: EU Then I'm Antonella Lombard All of our local metro the longest longest is meal how long this is those Latinos it percent Latinos this I say no little emails Cousteau Davos almost this my most mischievous animals follows and in my list let's put out Ambien veteran of stratospheric animal is gracious.
Speaker 1: Good evening, councilmembers and Mayor. My name is Guadalupe Berrios.
Speaker 6: I've been living in my apartment on 10th and Cedar for almost 20 years, and I as well have been given a 60 day notice and I don't have a place to go. I have been a responsible renter paying my rent on time and not causing any issues.
Speaker 6: I have done my part, but the company has maintained the apartments in an inhabitable condition in my apartment. A fungus came out, a.
Speaker 1: Mushroom out of the floor.
Speaker 6: This is not normal.
Speaker 1: And when I told the company they did nothing. No, nothing has changed.
Speaker 6: My carpet was never changed. I have had to change my carpet out of my own money. How many of you live with roaches? Rats? Bedbugs?
Speaker 1: They do neither. One time I have had to.
Speaker 3: Go beyond double. If you just summarize the. The rest of the message.
Speaker 1: Yes.
Speaker 6: I have lived in this district and in this city. I hope that you would protect us, not just the corporate interests. Please help maintain Long Beach an affordable place to live.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Let's be clear, please.
Speaker 13: When I look at Ramiro Vergara, everyone listening this year to the last year it ambiente then going to anyos I won't see any of my Nigerian Lautrec companion come home. Chaotic Newcastle little Cassie Robyn. That is nuevos personas.
Speaker 13: Yes. No. Lord Winehouse eloquent answer center. Yes. Baraka. Messala LaCour. Alistair your sterility. Diallo Yes. There are no apenas meal. Siento McKee Thomas yea pirate your cientos is getting so we may lowly mill city into lotteries the only Pueblo Sarkar in their.
Speaker 13: This is what I think.
Speaker 1: Hi. Good evening. My name is Ramiro Vergara. Vergara. I've been there for 20 years and this apartment and never left. I to receive the 60 day notice along with my neighbors that are here. And we are here to fight for our rights.
Speaker 1: It's not just that this company has the power to evict us and just to evict us to get more money. With no fair reason, these companies like beachfront properties, are destroying our city and are in this war thinking, okay, they're destroying our city and separating families.
Speaker 1: I implore you, I implore on behalf of our neighbors to stand up and not be afraid anymore to speak about these the way they manage these properties. The object is not to move us simply to raise money. It looks like we let you do this.
Speaker 1: Okay. And then just to summarize, he he wants to. He's pleading for you guys to have support for gun control. Okay.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 8: Well, not just the number of mice, each of us.
Speaker 13: The millennial apartamento that lost the additional revenue and they work at home. And which of them is best, you know, setting, you know, go under on this you almost inevitably tequila company occupy the common payroll company of the Palm Beach them you know that element of my motto is a saint that he has nothing apparently to make
Speaker 13: is say, give me the NBA and Long Beach. I don't know whether they will get Bahamians status. So. CONTENTO Sacrificial lamb, an impressive touring Quinta Party, Los Apartamento, Caracas, 80 inches Europe.
Speaker 7: Dennis left Paris more, I think, on the really poor.
Speaker 13: Terms and at the lower so looking a lot more commercial into a language but.
Speaker 8: I.
Speaker 4: Hello my name is Moses Torres and I too live in the apartments of 1019 Cedar Avenue. Seemed like many of my neighbors I have had to live with in habitable conditions because a company doesn't worry about us. I have lived there for nine years and the company Beach Front has given me a 60 day notice and I
Speaker 4: have nowhere to go. I would like I would like to live, continue living in Long Beach, but I can't pay the thousand 600.
Speaker 8: That they are asking for payments.
Speaker 4: Know that the cost to move. I, too, have to live with cockroaches, rats and bedbugs. Well, it's already hard for me to pay the rent. I pay I own 1350. I want to continue living as a resident in the area and I would hope that our elected leaders do something for the community and perhaps in support rent
Speaker 4: control. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Good evening, city council. I know it's a very sensitive subject. Recovering. My name's Eduardo Perez. I've worked in the city of Long Beach since the 1980s. I had food distributing business, and after many years of work, I bought some units and in the north and the south part of Long Beach.
Speaker 4: And it's a day to day job. We don't have I don't have anything fancy. Fancy, but it's it's lots of work, not eight hour days as 12 hour days to keep things running the way they should be with property taxes going up and putting a cap on on what you can work with.
Speaker 4: As far as the rent is concerned, it makes it very, very difficult to keep to turn a product that tenants are comfortable with and come to expect. And if you have a fixed amount that you can only go a certain percentage and it makes it almost impossible to provide adequate housing in and keep Long Beach looking the
Speaker 4: way it is now. Back in the eighties, this area of Long Beach was not the prettiest or the safest, and every day I see much prettier. Housing is much better kept. The roads, everything is. Unfortunately, our property taxes go through the roof.
Speaker 4: So that's another thing that, you know, we have to be able to keep up with what's going on. But God bless and do your best.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker.
Speaker 4: Please. Hi. My name is Omar. I am a resident for District District one Healthy Lives Matters for Low Income Families and Communities. The reason why I mentioned is that I have experienced displacement and homelessness many times in the past, and when you are displaced as well as homeless, you go through fatigue and lack of sleep.
Speaker 4: I mean, it totally distracts your daily life. You know, it's like being a full time student number of times. And I've been homeless during the times that I was in and in school. And most of us, all of us, I bet, been through lack of sleep, fatigued, have no idea where to go to do your homework and
Speaker 4: live a happy life. How how how were you feel? It was it was that you're in that position. How will you feel? How. How will it be to not have a roof over your head or a place to sleep it?
Speaker 4: Then the next day you have to work full time and and go to school or a nice school. Sarah. Sarah. So I say that housing is a human right and please support rent control. Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Good evening. My name's Martina Chapa, and I'm a 25 year resident of Long Beach. I've been a resident of District four. And I want to give you a firsthand perspective of what it is to be an owner landlord.
Speaker 4: Regarding my residency in the art craft metro area, where the neighborhood is principally duplex, I also owned my previous residence, another duplex in Los Angeles that's under rent control. So I have experience under both systems. My tenant, a Long Beach I've had for five years, I was able to work with her as a single mother.
Speaker 4: I reduced the rate of rent that I was asking for and I cut the security deposit in half. Five years that she's been there, I've raised her rent on average of 2% throughout this period of time. She's still not paying the rent that I requested when she first moved in.
Speaker 4: I would not be doing those considerations if I was under rent control. And when my property in Los Angeles, if you pass a rent control, that leaves a lot of discretion out of my hands. I'm faced with property taxes.
Speaker 4: I'm faced with a lot of other expenses that isn't rent control, property tax consideration. I had those same issues and pressures. There's a lot of economics going here and I feel there is an unfair burden that's going to be placed on small time landlords, especially, to try to even out the disadvantages of a lot of poor people
Speaker 4: here that are disadvantaged. You know, my heart goes out to them, but also consider the small time landlords that are trying to make a decent living. The home is my home. I run it not as a business, but as my home.
Speaker 4: And I'm looking for a good neighbor. Don't leave that discretion out to provide those things.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony. Let's look at this.
Speaker 0: Good evening, city council and mayor.
Speaker 1: Like all of you, I am a public servant. I'm a professor at Cal State Long Beach. My name is Dr. Chuck Harmony, and I wanted to give you the perspective of what it's like to be an instructor in a classroom at a university.
Speaker 1: And these are from 2017.
Speaker 0: Data.
Speaker 1: When one in five students are hungry and one in ten students are homeless. So I wanted to give you a picture, a face to what you see as homeless. It's not just destitute families that that you can kind of just shove away.
Speaker 1: These are my students and they are homeless because they can't even afford to live in a city where they're trying their best to get an education and to be civic citizens in this city and to give back and to be part of our future.
Speaker 1: And I wanted to leave you with three things that I, as a social scientist.
Speaker 0: Tell my.
Speaker 1: Students. And I would hope that as as civic servants like me, you would consider data that's holistic, not just data that is from one side. I think a gentleman actually gave really good research tonight, and I hope that you wouldn't use research that is quantitative as well as qualitative.
Speaker 1: We have a lot of anecdotal stories tonight that will help you inform your decision decision making. So just not just quality quantitative data, that's one side, but qualitative as well. Thank you for your time. Oh. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen of the Council.
Speaker 1: My name is Steve Barong, and I live in the fourth district. I am a rental property manager here in Long Beach. I manage about about 330 apartments in the Greater Long Beach area and in every district in the city.
Speaker 1: And I just want to express my strong support for this agenda item, and I hope that you guys will pass it and ask these important questions. As a property manager, I feel a fiduciary obligation to both my tenants and my property owners, and I do understand that they are not always in agreement, but I do think that
Speaker 1: good compromises can be made. I know just yesterday I gave 260 day notices to tenants who I love because the property owners own condos and they decided to sell now because they don't want to pay a relocation fee.
Speaker 1: Other tenants. So I lost excellent tenants who got 60 day notices. So I do feel in my heart for these people. That's why it's really important that we take the time to ask these questions. How is it going to affect all of the properties in the city of Long Beach?
Speaker 1: I'm frightened to own my own house, but my circumstances could change. I could face homelessness. I actually became a property manager because I came three days from losing my house in 2012 and I was unemployed and I went to work as a property manager, and that's how I saved my own home.
Speaker 1: So both sides have good points, but we really need to examine this proposed ordinance before we move forward with.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you for your testimony. Next Speaker First.
Speaker 1: When I'm address, embrace America. So I go and then I go to Tampa is what I would say. Gillespie opinion. But I would control the Tampa so you know my mom and I family face personas this person I mean they think there's a rent.
Speaker 0: And an.
Speaker 1: Apartment in America. Men and women have become more but a lot of multiple apartments here because I'm in community centers and schools public opinion and I mean they came here and render and women panel for me him in a.
Speaker 5: Paralysis.
Speaker 1: Make it through thinking around me. Yes but I will. I mean, I'll pay the rent bill. I guess I better. If there is any men that are looking at him as an instrument, then they don't get an analysis.
Speaker 5: Hmm.
Speaker 0: Good evening. My name is America Antonio. I am ISO. I ask that I ask for help for rent control. I have a family of six and I pay 1200 and rent. My husband doesn't earn enough to pay for another increase in rent.
Speaker 0: And he would look for rent for he would look for other housing and he would fine of 600. 1600. 2000. And that's why. And we can't afford and that's why I ask of you in the name of all the families that work and all the children of those families that you support, rent control.
Speaker 1: I guess.
Speaker 0: Right here. We're talking about numbers and loss of money. But the generations and our children, where will they really stand? Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Madam Speaker. So the gentleman in the burgundy, some of the fire fire marshal told us the last of the people on the outside are now in. So I would advise line up now because we're getting close the speaker's list in a moment.
Speaker 3: So after this next speaker, whoever's the last person in line, that's who's going to be last speaker. Thank u next speaker, please.
Speaker 8: Hi everyone. My name is Benjamin Chao. I am a constituent of the ninth district. Fortunately, my family owns their home, but I'm also speaking on behalf of my grandmother and my aunts who live in the eighth District and Bixby Knolls.
Speaker 8: From the perspective of, you know, owning a home, I think we oftentimes forget that homeowners and renters share the community. And I learned the other day that the only apartment complex on my block has just been purchased by the same company, Westland Real Estate Group, that is also redeveloping the the Uptown, which is in the Artesia corridor
Speaker 8: in the ninth District. And I point that out, because private real estate speculation in our city is one of the leading causes for rents going up and is threatening our existing affordable housing stock. And so because of this, I want to ask Mayor Garcia and especially Vice Mayor Richardson to really reevaluate their stance on rent control and
Speaker 8: look at the facts and look at our community. I want to ask, how do you plan to advocate for home ownership in the ninth District without first addressing rising rents and the rising cost of living in our city?
Speaker 8: Please put people over profit and protect our renters. Invest in people, not private property. You have the power to protect your people from investors. We are not dollar signs. Please stop the bleeding by instituting and considering a rent hike freeze like Santa Cruz has done and let Long Beach voters decide their own fate.
Speaker 8: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. And I'm looking forward to getting a cup of coffee with you next week.
Speaker 1: Please call me. Oh.
Speaker 3: My neighbor here next week, please.
Speaker 1: Oh, because I work as a barista. That's why I thought.
Speaker 3: Maybe we'll come to your shop next week, please.
Speaker 1: Okay. I'm Mary DeSoto.
Speaker 9: A lot of people know me here. I am a homeowner.
Speaker 1: In the ninth district.
Speaker 9: As you know.
Speaker 1: And like I've said before, I also pay property taxes. My property taxes do go up and don't get so excited. I think it is absolutely wrong to want to make a profit. I can't make a profit if my.
Speaker 2: Community is not thriving.
Speaker 1: Equity is important to me and my property is important to me. One day I planned to maybe rent my property and I still don't think that it's okay that my neighbors are paying $1,600 for their one bedroom apartment.
Speaker 1: That's shitty I've seen. I've been inside their apartment. It's crap they don't. The landlord that lives in Orange County, she doesn't fix the apartment. She hasn't painted it. It smells in there. The carpets are bad. They it's roach infested and they pay $400 less.
Speaker 1: And what I do for my mortgage, I represent over 700 workers here in Long Beach at our hotel workers. Most of these workers live and work in Long Beach. And there most of them are renters. It is not and it is not a uncommon conversation that these workers can't afford to live in Long Beach.
Speaker 1: Let's not be the city that has to outsource to other cities to have workers. This is not about making this is about making Long Beach white. Again, let's be honest.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony. Let's take a this.
Speaker 1: Oh, no, it's me again, piggybacking off of that. So it really strikes me how outrageously disempowered so many people in this room feel. We have people who have put in a lot of economic you bring a lot of their own money into owning one property and now they are severely compromised.
Speaker 1: And now we have a lot of people here who have either been pregnant, women who have been poisoned or people who have been sleeping on the streets, because we have, as correctly pointed out, corporate landlords coming in and putting their boots on the back of the people who make Long Beach.
Speaker 1: Long Beach. And, you know, in terms of the five year plan, I, I maybe we should just take the lesson rather than trying to make Long Beach sound sort of like a corny version of Los Angeles. Maybe we should invest in the people who are already here rather than inviting in outside influences.
Speaker 1: I, you know, in this really like ugly, exploitative, neoliberal thing because the abuse is so ugly, all you can only understand what it is like to not have control over the roof, over your own head, if you've experienced it, because I can't communicate it verbally, that terror or something, you have to live.
Speaker 1: And so many people in this room are living it right now. And you've got to take that into responsibility as public servants, the terror and the fear that these people are experiencing in this room.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony. So raise your hand. The last person in line. Okay. So the young lady raised the pin. Last person in line. Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: My name is Gregory. Dean and I reside in both the first district and the seventh District. I am the proud property owner of two vintage properties, one specifically located in Downtown's West Side. The other in the neighborhood of Wrigley.
Speaker 4: The Downtown property is a 1923 art deco four plex. It is a multifamily property first spotted in 2003. At that time, it was primarily low income and Section eight tenants. There are 14 people living in one small, two bedroom apartment.
Speaker 4: Since purchasing that property, I have become as an owner, I have replaced the roof, the ingoing, outgoing plumbing. I have refurbished all the interiors. I have completely restored the exterior of the property. I have repaired all termite damage.
Speaker 4: I have worked directly with the lawn and garden program to re landscaped the property and I've also benefited local businesses who I have hired for that work. Those those units are now what I take pride in as a property owner.
Speaker 4: I also stand as somebody who struggled with both homelessness and addiction in the eighties. And I am proud to say that I run a quality place for people to live. And I make no apologies to anybody here in this room.
Speaker 4: So as you do your research, I hope you'll keep in mind that some of us are good landlords, responsible landlords, and treat our tenants with compassion and fairness. Always.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 2: Good evening, council members. My name is Shannon Llewellyn. I'm a social worker here in Long Beach, and I deal with developmentally disabled clients who live on only $900 a month that include utilities and food, by the way, which I would like to see all of you do a social experiment and try to live on that.
Speaker 2: We cannot continue to spend 70% of our income on rent where we have no more to put back into this community that we live in. I grew up here. I did a brief survey of our city back in the day, if you will.
Speaker 2: When I was in high school. It was contentment. Now it's chaos.
Speaker 1: The rental requirements are almost.
Speaker 2: Three times the amount of income. 655 AE And no blemishes. The people that are against rent control are well off. Lower standards. I heard from what they're already low subsidized.
Speaker 1: Don't pay landlords enough.
Speaker 2: Greed has the wheel of this vehicle and you're driving people out of Long Beach faster than a race car. The mayor has already said his stance. Limitless opportunities for builders and developers to make for profit apartments. You need to make low income apartments.
Speaker 2: But we have no money. But yet $900 million for a civic center and 1.5 million for bicycles. I think you guys need to redirect your attention to where it's actually needed.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Thank you for your time. My name is Andrew Carr. I live in the second district. Thank you to all my fellow residents for being.
Speaker 7: Here and city council for staying late on the third week in a row like this. We really appreciate I appreciate it. I want to say two things. First of all, that the lived experiences of our of our.
Speaker 4: Community members should always be believed. And that includes that what property managers.
Speaker 8: Talk about when they talk about their experiences. But I also want to remind everyone that when renters talk about their experiences, even if it seems like it's outside the.
Speaker 4: Scope of our reality or some of our realities, that those experiences are very real. A Renters should be believed when they talk about what they're facing.
Speaker 7: In this city. Second of all, I want to say as regards to rent control, that rent control as a policy does not increase the quantity nor the quality of housing. But that's because the function of rent control, quite clearly is not to do those things.
Speaker 4: The function of rent control is to keep people in their homes all the time. The time to increase the quantity and the quality of housing in Long Beach was about six years ago, but instead this city chose to pass the downtown plan and.
Speaker 7: Now that ship has sailed.
Speaker 4: And that conversation is over. If we're wondering why, that's why we're at an initiative.
Speaker 7: You'll notice that an.
Speaker 4: Initiative is not a conversation. There's no chance to amend an initiative or anything like that. Initiative either gets passed or it doesn't. It's really unfortunate. It's actually not as democratic as it could be. I think this is democracy and initiative is an unfortunate thing.
Speaker 4: That is a last resort. And we need to ask ourselves why it is in the cities that renters are at their last resort and that is rent control. It's not a perfect policy, but it's the last resort. And I think we need to stop pushing renters into this corner because there's nowhere else for them to back out
Speaker 4: of and they're going to end up leaving the city.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker, please. Hey.
Speaker 4: How are you? I'm Nancy Tyler. I am in the process of moving here from Santa monica, moving into Long Beach First District. And all I can do is tell you what I've seen in Santa monica since I've been there.
Speaker 4: I've seen day after day living proof that rent control is not helping the people who actually need help. Santa monica has an enormous homeless population there, and it continues to grow. It is out of control. Despite decades of rent control, few units are available and when a rent controlled unit becomes available, the only people who get them
Speaker 4: are the people who show up at the property management office with a pile of cash, a 700 plus credit score. In other words, exactly the people who have no need for rent control. The building I live in is rent controlled and the garage every day I would see Mercedes, Mercedes, Lexus, BMW, all these people who do not
Speaker 4: need help. There is a person in there. No kidding, who is driving around in a mercedes E-Class convertible and rents out some of her rooms to sub tenants for market rent making money off of this place. It is maddening.
Speaker 4: There are more and more things like this, I could begin to tell you, but there are things that we can do that will actually fix the problem and provide housing. As a human right, we can provide subsidy programs like Section eight.
Speaker 4: We can fund affordable housing so that we can choose who actually gets the affordable housing here, not just the Mercedes driver I mentioned. My wife and her family moved to America from Vietnam when she was ten, after her father did seven years in a North Vietnamese P.O.W. camp, earning citizenship for him for for him and his family
Speaker 4: . They lived in subsidized housing in San Jose, and I lived there with them for a time. It is safe. It gives the residents the dignity they deserve and these programs can actually solve the problem.
Speaker 3: We are all to salt. Thank you for your testimony. Your next bigger piece.
Speaker 4: Good evening, Mayor. Good evening, Mayor Garcia and city council and Long Beach residents. Thank you for your time tonight. There's no doubt that most people in this room already know which side of this issue they support. We have heard many opinions on rent control tonight, and with all respect to both sides and everyone in the room.
Speaker 4: Most of them are irrelevant to the agenda item being discussed tonight, which is only to vote on these questions. I that's my place here. I stand here to remind everyone in this room that the proposed ordinance will affect every resident in Long Beach, whether you rent or own.
Speaker 4: There are a lot of unanswered questions, including the seven pages in the agenda item. In order for all of us to make our own educated decision, we need more impartial data about the proposed ordinance. Agenda Item 15 will provide this impartial data by answering the submitted questions with all with answers for all to review.
Speaker 4: And as stated in the agenda, there is no negative, no known negative. Fiscal Impact Impact Agenda item number 15 needs to be passed for the sake of all of us, not just one side. Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 9: Hi. My name is Sherrie Posey. I moved to Long Beach in 1994 from New York City, where I was under rent control.
Speaker 6: And I was an.
Speaker 9: Illegal roommate for the person who was had lived there for like 25 years. I was paying triple her rent.
Speaker 6: So it happens.
Speaker 9: And yes, there are laws, but.
Speaker 6: That's what happens. When I moved to Long.
Speaker 9: Beach, I rented for about five years. My husband and I bought our first house.
Speaker 1: In the fourth district.
Speaker 9: Which we still own.
Speaker 6: But it's a rental.
Speaker 1: Then we.
Speaker 9: Bought another house.
Speaker 6: Or another property, a little.
Speaker 1: Condo in the second district, which we still own.
Speaker 6: But it's a rental. And then we bought.
Speaker 1: Two small one bedroom condos in the seventh.
Speaker 9: District. All of our rents are from.
Speaker 1: 1125 and the house is 1400. We're not getting super rich.
Speaker 9: Off of these rents. We are hoping that.
Speaker 1: You know, the properties have increased in value.
Speaker 0: They're our entire retirement fund.
Speaker 9: We work for ourselves and we don't have pensions. This impacts us.
Speaker 1: I live in the fifth District. And I intend to live in Long Beach. Well, forever. But these kinds of measures that, I mean, from my standpoint, seem to be one sided.
Speaker 9: Maybe not well thought out. Need to be really looked at. I'm glad you're looking at them, but the.
Speaker 1: Initiative as it's proposed doesn't make sense to me as a small property owner.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your time. Speaker, please.
Speaker 5: No.
Speaker 0: I'm going to translate.
Speaker 13: It will be less back on Tara's better. Mary Costello. Ms.. Roberto Garcia came as possible. Okaloosa pharmacy executive, who was mired in inequity, will go to a sukanya tota and wear the Casillas. And. And. I've yet to hear de la Paz someone move to take on ceramics.
Speaker 13: But. How am I interpreting little Tommy Christy? I know feeling will make me that bother trying time. But we are lucky in unwavering time where we turn kill. Which I hate to say it. Our thought here, Luciano, when this demented commode spun, represent the annual puzzle you were catching on, would you put your own album?
Speaker 13: Comandante the Vancouver Judicial, possibly reform. But when I was in Asia. You will not see in my Kuryakin where we are. Not yet. But it is crucial in keeping less content. They must instantly retrace Quatermass. This one was a psychotic anomaly.
Speaker 0: My name is Victor Chacon.
Speaker 5: I think.
Speaker 1: I live in a 939.
Speaker 0: Pacific Avenue. I've lived there for 30 years.
Speaker 13: Diego Gentile, you?
Speaker 1: I have.
Speaker 0: Eight. I'm 81 years old.
Speaker 13: Can it be? No. They don't want an audition. We fatica you, Golan. Now you come alone, as it were. Me.
Speaker 0: So the manager came up to us and gave us a notice of eviction. Like very aggressive, arrogant manner.
Speaker 13: From.
Speaker 4: Appropriate.
Speaker 0: Beachfront management properties. That's what she would explain.
Speaker 13: Okay, you're not dating women since his email podcast has yet to meet a new reporting venue, a laundry room. And we're reporting it by value. And our client. Don't know why Janice is our client.
Speaker 1: And seven months.
Speaker 0: They haven't fixed the laundry room.
Speaker 13: Or the laundry room.
Speaker 1: A lot of complaints about.
Speaker 0: Repairs in the building have not have yet to be met.
Speaker 13: 37 minutes to talk with you.
Speaker 0: For seven months that we've been asking for these repairs, she's still yet to repair them under development.
Speaker 13: Wow. Wow.
Speaker 4: Wow. Well.
Speaker 0: Basically, he's been humiliated and demeaned by his own property manager.
Speaker 13: Well. Well.
Speaker 5: Mm hmm. Because I would.
Speaker 13: Like to see young people in equipment safe way, condo, yeoman dandy, etc.. Break it down. Okay.
Speaker 0: He has the paper with him if you all want to read it.
Speaker 13: Yeah. Goaltending.
Speaker 0: And it wasn't just him. It was also his neighbors.
Speaker 13: So they go for break at the end of an audition for termination.
Speaker 0: An eviction notice for 30 days. He and his wife are both disabled.
Speaker 13: Intolerance. He will find it. They need the dancer sent.
Speaker 5: To.
Speaker 13: Them.
Speaker 3: Thank you. If you could just summarize the final one.
Speaker 13: Mean my English debut. You go my paper to is why wag when they say not playing with me? Can we rely on papel determination? Thank you, Tango. Gentlemen, you trained Daniel BBN to throw a hand on estimating he commits to papel aubergines told me to read the book.
Speaker 13: You're laboring on Delta. She wrote the mutual special. Thank you.
Speaker 3: I understand there's a language barrier, but I would like for you to interpret the importance of summarizes remark. I don't want to cut him off in the middle of it.
Speaker 13: You only see it. The contents are you because you were meant to communicate mostly. Okay.
Speaker 3: Well, thank you for your time.
Speaker 13: You know what? You know.
Speaker 4: If you go to the also some more. I'm with.
Speaker 13: Osama.
Speaker 1: You're with us. Well, there was a lot. And this was all, like, intoxicated.
Speaker 9: Me me of using it.
Speaker 1: Gracias.
Speaker 3: Thank you.
Speaker 0: It's my turn now, and I ask that you give me time to, because I'm going to translate for my for myself.
Speaker 3: If you have the ability speak English, then then it's 90 seconds. The the double time is for you.
Speaker 1: To provide it.
Speaker 0: Like translators for us to.
Speaker 1: And the audience member should have.
Speaker 0: Had translator translator headphones as well. So, I.
Speaker 3: Mean. Thank you. Simultaneous interpretation is why we give double time so two people can speak.
Speaker 0: I will meows. I keep going. You'll get going. Your ego goes to understand damilola him.
Speaker 1: But God, Eunice. God, I am angry.
Speaker 0: That you.
Speaker 1: Guys haven't been providing people with translators. People here have have a necessity to.
Speaker 0: To tell you guys what they are going through. Looking back at the analysis theories. They look a little pasando. Ozark or lemming would like. Jesus. I got a lot to say, but men like y'all want to put me down to one minute.
Speaker 0: All right. So I am a student at Long Beach. And I told you guys this last week as a student of this issue, albeit with each of us, when I say Mana, when you guys wanted to put this as a receive and file cannot get in as it is more they.
Speaker 0: You look up at a bonus expressed by Bloodsworth and I told y'all that I was I used to be homeless. I told you all that I was struggling to pay rent. Conor Lesniak, your skill at a homeless and untamable miracle investor tratando baby renter.
Speaker 0: And yet I still have to pay. Figure out how to pay with three other roommates. One quarter. They lost the little commas. And I still have to tell them how I'm struggling to pay for a two.
Speaker 1: Bedroom and basically an.
Speaker 0: And as I said, to keep us in rent control. I need you to pass rent control. Fuck.
Speaker 3: Like speaker, please.
Speaker 4: Yeah. My name is George Cornelius and I was born and raised in Long Beach.
Speaker 7: I lived in the fifth District for 42 years.
Speaker 4: And I just want to tell you, actually, 40 years, we all have personal stories. And I can tell you why some of the personal stories that affected me in.
Speaker 7: Regards to housing. One of them included my mother, who was a diagnosed schizophrenic. She had an autistic child that she could never accept. My parents separated because of it. I had to leave our house eventually because my mother got followed home at three in the morning when I was young and I had to pull a gun out
Speaker 7: to get the man leave, to leave her alone. My point is, we all have to make hard choices in life. My sister recently resided at Fairview State Mental Hospital and it's being closed and I had to move her and it was difficult.
Speaker 7: So I'm a property owner in Long Beach. I still love the city. And I relate to these people's problems. But by the same time, we have an issue to address. Sometimes good intentions go awry and they create the most unintended consequences.
Speaker 7: And it's your job as council members to make sure that doesn't happen.
Speaker 4: We can tell you emotional stories. But emotional stories don't solve the crisis. What solve the crisis.
Speaker 7: Is bringing more housing to Long Beach. That's what solves the crisis and the market can do that.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony and that speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Questions for a review regarding rent control, rent board and eviction limitations. Number one work economic class is served to be disenfranchized if such rent control is not is negated. Is the economic class of owners larger or smaller than the ruling majority?
Speaker 1: What percentage of landlords in Long Beach refuses to honor Section eight with the Long Beach Housing Authority in place? Why are we yet addressing this? Then you address this year after year. This isn't new. How many developers and building are building affordable housing that is based on the lowest adult living wage earner in Long Beach?
Speaker 1: Is there an understanding between the city and the possible landlords that renters are to be desired as a continued demographic? Those of you who are running for reelection, will this be addressed before your voting days in light of the fact that your constituents are being evicted tonight?
Speaker 1: How fast will this issue be resolved if you put a moratorium on evictions and increases until this review leads to a workable resolve? Do you personally know any landlords who do this without enforcement?
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 8: Hello. My name's Mark Pineda. I'm 16 years old and I'm quite new to this issue. But in the time allotted, I understand that I cannot explain to you all the dangers of rent control. But we did provide a bunch of questions for you two that I urge that you read, and I thank you for considering and reviewing
Speaker 8: this important issue. It's very important to me and my family. One thing I could say for certain is that what I've learned from history is that we don't learn from history. If you if you look at the cities and the countries that have been destroyed by this socialist like Bill, it destroys the economy.
Speaker 8: Why can't we learn from it? I'm.
Speaker 1: I'm no, I'm no expert.
Speaker 8: But trust me, I'm no fool. If you look at other countries, they failed.
Speaker 1: And to the lady who.
Speaker 8: Saying that it's wrong to earn profits, try living in a country, with all due respect, because I had no ill will towards her. All due respect, child, living in a country where your profits mean nothing to you. Our country is built on profits.
Speaker 8: That's why we have a beautiful city, a beautiful country.
Speaker 1: The people were saying, see, suppress the issue. Can you can make it? My parents, they.
Speaker 8: Were three jobs to pay their bills. Hey, it's America. We were built on profits were built on hard workers. And that's how we got to do it. I oppose rent control. Rent control. Thank you very much.
Speaker 3: Thank you for your testimony next week, at least.
Speaker 1: They protest?
Speaker 3: Desdemona, let's let that situation calm down real quick so you get your free time just. Just a moment before you guys start. So you get the whole time. We're women. Respectfully, everyone, let's respect the speakers. We've gone through quite a few.
Speaker 3: We only have a few more. Let's go ahead and respect that. So let's not fight one another in the audience. Thank you. You have 3 minutes.
Speaker 1: But I know she is honorably, like a little better. Garcia less than Milwaukee. A story. I woke up with a sack of money there.
Speaker 6: Good evening, mayors, honorable council members and mayor. Once again, I'm here advocating for my community.
Speaker 1: To work within a circle, not to look and say Hi, Lace. I say I knew maybe you meaning a key one, though not as I look at what I work on. Eddie Fisher. They're going to need our this continues con discapacidad is in all its important this aloha.
Speaker 1: I'll say I knew maybe you.
Speaker 6: A year and a year and a half ago, I came down here letting you all know that my building of 20 units was bought and I was being evicted. And you did nothing.
Speaker 1: Finalement. Yeah, but when I say my ninth, is it get the Newcastle Mail apartment and country album? No, no, no. Since we can get rhythm in in Barcelona so we don't go let us.
Speaker 6: I wanna be. One week before my eviction was up, I found a place. This place has increased my rent numerous times.
Speaker 1: In the city.
Speaker 6: And in the in the past month they increased it to $200 more.
Speaker 1: Equal to Yosemite a year. Not heavy. I don't care Jacobo if he is going nowhere. They do not know North Cardinal Edificio yet. They run by nice Aloha Bank, the familiar mass.
Speaker 6: Once again, my ironically, my building just got sold yesterday. We got the news that our building got sold another 20 units. They don't want us in there. And so I'm going to be evicted again.
Speaker 1: Eastern time what need tell us what needs to expand country on El Centro. Tampa CEO says get your ass on your entire body but I want all incredibly mental lost lost precious. The noise about our records.
Speaker 6: The units they're building in central and downtown Long Beach are beautiful. I would love my dream is to live in one of those, but honestly, I've been looking at the prices and I can't afford any of them.
Speaker 1: You know. So based in the areas established by Orlando milking in those means they see and those Polaroid cameras see in Miami I rather morbid I want Eddie Fisher in Ocean Boulevard. For those lowlifes getting sick and also looking at those barriers is ten mascaras Kayla Ocean Boulevard.
Speaker 6: Not again in neighborhoods there. There is 1500 to 1600 studios in two bedrooms. One of my friends just moved in to a two bedroom for $2,000 on Ocean Boulevard.
Speaker 1: And Seascape, considering in three months had a yellow rating. Anarchy. And if they didn't permission, I say. SAROYAN Considering, you know, they were equals of. Swamp Kraken, the Genesee Ghetto, even Long Beach yesterday in the end of February.
Speaker 1: That gave me a talking head photos. If I look at those either plus are those your second noisiest areas is are they buy faster. Say it's not always the. So think about.
Speaker 6: It when.
Speaker 1: Corporate.
Speaker 6: Landlords come in it's not they're not building affordable housing. It's not for us. It's not for the people who live here. And it's for people who are out of Long Beach. And I know it's not for you. It's it's.
Speaker 6: This problem has existed since Foster's time here.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Yes, I really do. Look, I will stay there.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Thank you.
Speaker 1: And that is your gift.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Good evening or good morning. I'm not sure what time it is. My name is Tiffany Davy and I reside in the second district. Thanks everyone for speaking.
Speaker 8: I would like to highlight that we do need to collect thorough data.
Speaker 1: Independent data, perhaps.
Speaker 8: Give us some insight to what the rental market has really been like over the past four years. Who's most affected? Which renters, which landlords. And if we could quantify how many 60 day notices have been distributed since the rent control initiative has been put.
Speaker 1: Into the public sphere numbers?
Speaker 8: I've lived here in the city for 14 years, in this state for 32 within the past 14 years. I think the total and I'm forgetting a few different situations here, the amount of money that I've spent for rent, if I average it to be 600 to 1200, which it has been, equates to just under $252,000.
Speaker 8: My last household, which I resided in for quite some time, we paid upwards of.
Speaker 1: $90,000 the entire time that we are there.
Speaker 8: Members are important and I hope that we focus on the correct ones and we allow democracy to take place. Thank you, everyone, for doing what you are.
Speaker 3: Thank you. And our final speaker, please. And thank you for being patient.
Speaker 1: Good evening.
Speaker 6: Honorable mayor and council members. My name is Maria. I am the proud daughter.
Speaker 1: Of a hard working.
Speaker 6: Migrant single mother in the First District. I am a new renter in the seventh District.
Speaker 1: And I'm the director of Community Organizing for Housing Long Beach. The tenant landlord struggle.
Speaker 6: Is more than just an issue of good versus evil. It is a question of whether you. It is not a question of whether you have a good landlord.
Speaker 1: Or a bad.
Speaker 6: Landlord.
Speaker 1: The struggle is based on two different competing interests that have nothing to do with personalities of the landlord or the tenant. The landlord is seeking to make a profit of the apartment while the tenant is seeking to make the apartment, his or him or her or their home.
Speaker 1: A landlord sees the apartment as a commodity. A tenant sees his or her home as community. A commodity versus community. Conflict is basically at the root of every landlord and tenant dispute. It is clear.
Speaker 6: That Long Beach has a housing.
Speaker 1: Issue. Right. And it's been said.
Speaker 6: Clearly that you.
Speaker 1: All are opposed to rent control. So I am as baffled.
Speaker 6: And confused as to how you I can.
Speaker 1: Trust you to make an unbiased decision when it's been said that you are opposed to rent control. And I want to close off with saying you need to support rent control because when tenants rise, cities thrive.
Speaker 3: Thank you. So that concludes public comment. So now we're going to take it back behind the rail. So the second are the motions, Councilman Andrews. But I think you just mentioned you want to defer. Okay. So next is Councilman Austin.
Speaker 10: So in light of the great public comment we heard here this evening on all sides, I'm going to be brief. I just want to appreciate my colleagues for bringing this item forward. I think the questions are in the in the document are important.
Speaker 10: And it would be good to have our staff work on that so that we have good information, that we all have good information moving forward. I want to appreciate the organizers on both sides, all sides of this issue for organizing.
Speaker 10: Thank you. Yes, you guys did a great job. Turn it out this evening. And, you know, we've been been having long city council meetings for for some time now. The I want to just say that that I think this issue is an issue that, you know, we've been grappling with for for some time, too.
Speaker 10: And for my colleagues here, I know that each and every one of us, I can speak for myself, but I know that everybody behind this dais cares about this issue deeply. This is something that each and every one of us spends a lot of time putting, a lot of thought into a lot of research into and and
Speaker 10: we're looking for answers every day. This is not something that popped up yesterday. This is something that we've been dealing with for four years. And we've also have taken deliberate steps to to address our housing issues through because of the issues that you've brought before us.
Speaker 10: You know, it's our job to take care and to make a difference. This is I want to be clear. This is not a black and white issue. This is not an easy issue or eternal. There's no panacea to fixing a housing crisis.
Speaker 10: Right. This is not a Latino issue. This is. This issue engages and involves seniors and people from all backgrounds in our city. And and I think every district is impact impacted on this. I've done a lot of research and I've been looking at the 15 cities in California that actually do have rent control.
Speaker 10: And I'm not convinced that it's a panacea for for for for our housing crisis. I do think and I have been very deliberate, we need to build more housing in the city that we passed the land use element and went through that process.
Speaker 10: And it was a it was a painstaking process to go through. But we are laying out and putting the foundation together for to improve this situation. Now, I think the challenge before this council really is going to be is how do we fast track?
Speaker 10: You know, because I don't think we can we can wait three, four, five, six years for housing to be developed. We need to make it happen now. And and I will say that, you know, San Francisco I was talking to an elected official in San Francisco just last week.
Speaker 10: He was talking about the rent control, but was also talking about the the fact that the average rent for for a two bedroom apartment is somewhere close to four, $5,000 a month. I don't know if that's that's what he said.
Speaker 10: Right. That's that's that's serious. Santa monica. It's it's the rents are very, very high there. Beverly Hills, Berkeley, West Hollywood, San Jose. These are all cities that that have rent control. Right. And and when you look at the average rents in Long Beach, we are well below those cities.
Speaker 10: And I'm not saying that that is a good that is a fact. And that's something that we all need to take into consideration. I'm not saying what we need to do in the city also is is focus on creating great jobs because that's going to bring the incomes up and that's going to be prudent.
Speaker 10: That's going to put people in a in a better position to be able to afford quality housing. And I speak to quality housing because that is where this I think the issue started a few years ago. You know, we we had our housing advocates come before the council and say, hey, that the the quality housing the quality
Speaker 10: of our housing isn't where it needs to be. We know we have old housing stock, but but we heard stories and we're still hearing stories about subsub, you know, horrible living conditions that people have to live through. We sought to improve that by bringing forth a prep policy.
Speaker 10: We we we raised the minimum wage in the city. We've made deliberate efforts to address these issues, and we're going to continue to do that. So I want to again thank my colleagues for bringing forth this, this, this.
Speaker 10: This item. I want to thank everybody for having, I think, a heartfelt conversation about this. I think this conversation is going to continue over the course of the next several months, and it's going to be a citywide conversation that needs to be had.
Speaker 10: I'm going to tell you right now that I'm not I'm not sit in on any sort of policy. Yes, no or indifferent. I'm waiting for a lot of this information to come back. But again, I do not think that there is a silver bullet or a or one single solution to this issue.
Speaker 10: It's going to take a full court press and it's going to take a multi-prong strategy to deal with housing. And that's the way we have to do it and do it responsibly. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilman. Councilwoman Price.
Speaker 6: Thank you. I, too, want to thank everyone who came out tonight and who spoke and gave testimony on both sides. I think sometimes when people feel passionately about one side or the other, the conversation can get unnecessarily divisive.
Speaker 6: And it takes a while for us to get to some solutions. And hopefully this is part of the start of that process. And we can get to a place where we have some solutions. But, you know, I think I kept reading the item over and over again because as people were talking at the podium, it wasn't clear
Speaker 6: to me that everybody understood why we were here. It's not really council's position to be objective on this particular issue. Certainly we want to learn and we want to hear. We want to continue to get more information. But we're talking about a voter initiative.
Speaker 6: We're not talking about where the council members stand. So, you know, a few people said, you know, you're not objective. I I've done a lot of research on this issue already. I think I have a pretty good understanding of it.
Speaker 6: I think I have a very strong standing of where I'm at. I don't believe rent control will be beneficial for the city of Long Beach. That's my personal opinion. And but I'm one voter. I'm one voter. And I think that having an opportunity like we have tonight and I appreciate the housing advocates who came forward and thanked
Speaker 6: council and super non those of us who signed on for bringing the item. I thank you for thanking him because in fact that is going to provide us some additional information with which we'll be able to further elaborate on our thoughts or opinions or maybe have our opinions, our minds changed.
Speaker 6: I don't know. What I will tell you is for me personally and each of us takes a different journey in determining where our policy positions are going to stand. For me, I've read just about every single study that anyone here has sent me.
Speaker 6: I've reviewed analysis of what has happened in other cities that have passed rent control. I've reviewed economists, progressive economists, conservative economists, their analysis of rent control based on all of that. I'm going to formulate my own opinion about the voter backed initiative, should it get to that point.
Speaker 6: This is not an issue where we're asking council to be objective so that they can vote on an item. We're talking about getting more information as we start to educate and have those conversations with the voters. So I think I've been pretty.
Speaker 6: I've met with anyone who's requested to meet with me on this topic, anyone, and always happy to be educated. But I'm also not going to talk out of both sides of my mouth because I don't think anybody deserves that.
Speaker 6: I think it's important for you to get a sense of where your representatives stand on this issue. We've certainly had time to educate ourselves. And, you know, I thank everyone for coming out. I agree with Councilman Austin. We have done a lot in the city to talk about the issue of housing.
Speaker 6: Housing is definitely an issue that is a priority for this council. And if you don't believe it's a priority to this council, then you may not have been watching what we've been working on for the last three and a half years and creating opportunities for housing stock and the third district alone.
Speaker 6: We've had specific plans that have been approved and now we had a general plan that was approved. And we've created over 2000 units of additional housing over the course of the next 30 years. That is that is progress.
Speaker 6: And so I think the other thing, as you know, we've talked about some policies that I think are going to be detrimental, frankly, to housing needs like short term rentals. I think I personally believe that that is going to take away long term housing units from individuals and how we're having that conversation at the same time that
Speaker 6: we're having this conversation. It baffles me, frankly, because I don't know how we can say we want to add more housing for people who are displaced and then say we want to vacate these properties so we can make an income off of taxing it.
Speaker 6: I don't understand that. So that's just my personal opinion. And I would I would I would ask the housing advocates to be engaged in that conversation to meet with my office. Let's. Talk about that because that's an area where we have tons and tons of apartments that would be much more lucrative to be rented out as Airbnbs
Speaker 6: than they would as permanent housing for families that need it. So that's where my head's at on this issue. But I thank everyone for coming forward and sharing your thoughts with us and I think my colleague councilman super now for bringing this forward.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilmember Andrews.
Speaker 11: And yet yet. Yes, thank you very much, Mayor. You know, Jeanette, I want to acknowledge everyone who came out to speak on this item, because I want to thank you for sharing your concerns, because the fact that tonight's vote is requested for an expert, you know, opinion about looking forward to receiving details, reports on an application this
Speaker 11: ballot initiative will have on our city. And I think what will it have in our city? We talk about a ballot that you're going to go to the polls, try to find out where we will stand. And what is really bothered me today is that I look and find out that we don't even have enough votes on
Speaker 11: the ballot to even be able to get this passed. So what are we talking about when you talk about rent control, where the people that are supposed to be there to go and get these people to be on put on the ballot in order to get this done.
Speaker 11: I don't think rent control is going to be the key to finding out whether people will be able to stay in Long Beach. I think we're going to have to be able to get jobs. Will it be able to pierce enough money to be able to stay in Long Beach?
Speaker 11: And without building not low income housing we're talking about, you say low income, we're going to have to just start building because without that, we're going to have it won't even be about rent control, which is that more, you know, homeless people.
Speaker 11: So what we're going to have to do is really get serious about putting some houses out here where people can live in Long Beach and having jobs where they can't afford to live in Long Beach. And I think tonight is one of the greatest thing to show people coming out and giving their concerns and how compassion you
Speaker 11: are about this, because I'm a renter myself, but I tell you, I'm going to work and I'm going to make sure that we're going to have to be able to pay my rent. And most of you guys will be able to do the same thing when I look in for a pity party.
Speaker 11: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilmember Durango.
Speaker 7: Thank you, Mayor. As I understand it, this request is basically a study session. It's it's a study session that's going to come either before us now or come later. So I'm basically going to support this initiative now because the sooner we have our questions answered about what we're going to be dealing with, the better for it is
Speaker 7: for all of us. So I will be supporting this.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilman Gonzalez.
Speaker 9: Yes. Thanks to everybody for being here. I know we're all very tired. I'm sick probably because we've been averaging about a midnight plus, you know, time here. But these issues are very, very important to us. And so I want to thank my colleagues for bringing this forward.
Speaker 9: I think that it is true that every time we can collect more information, it serves us all a better purpose. So I really appreciate it. And in addition to this, I know we have to listen to different perspectives and we have to make sure that we know what to expect because something is on the horizon and we
Speaker 9: don't know what that's going to be. Signature gathering may happen and we may get to that point and we don't know what the voters will will do in November. But we do know that right now, I know many of my residents are being served 60 day notices.
Speaker 9: They are being displaced. I myself, we're setting up a meeting with beach front, but that's just one out of probably a dozen property managers that I've met with that we will continue to work with, you know, seniors at Plymouth West, people at ninth and Pacific and 10th and Cedar.
Speaker 9: We're intervening as a city council office. I'm actually writing a letter of support to urge them to offer an extension in some cases, because we know people in 60 days, that's not going to really give you a lot of time, unfortunately, to come up with another security deposit and really get yourself into another place.
Speaker 9: And so I just want to let everybody know that we support you there and we'll absolutely do what we can there. In addition to that, we know that some of the conditions that people are living in, although it's not described here and this is off topic, but very relevant to the conversation is, you know, they're living in
Speaker 9: below quality of life issues but below quality of life. And it doesn't speak to all landlords, but it definitely speaks to the very small percent of landlords that we know can do a lot better. And we need to be keeping more track of that.
Speaker 9: So what have we done here? I think our first year in office, many of us actually got together and we did a 120 day violators list and that is posted on Development Services website. And I'm actually working to make that more transparent so people know which landlords are not playing by the rules when it comes to quality
Speaker 9: of life issues, serious quality of life issues. In addition to that, we work to, you know, just to make sure that people have, for instance, seniors that have low income housing currently, that they can stay in that sort of model of low income housing.
Speaker 9: We actually put together a report that asks for options and what we can do to keep those covenants, because we know a lot of those remain in downtown and what can we do after that? But aside from that, I just want to continue with this step because it's very important.
Speaker 9: You know, downtown gets picked on a lot. And I get that, you know, there's a lot of development going on in downtown, but we're home to over 1700 affordable housing units. Currently, we have 300 to 500 more coming online with very low income housing models.
Speaker 9: It's really it's something I'm very proud about. Do we need to create more? Absolutely, we do. But it needs to be an equitable distribution throughout the city. And I have been I've always said that and I will remain saying that that we need to advocate everywhere in the city, not just in downtown, all all parts, to ensure
Speaker 9: that people can live in Belmont Shore, just like they can live in downtown and still have lower rents in that respect. So I'm with you. I'm listening. And we'll certainly connect, you know, on on what we can do going forward.
Speaker 9: And I thank my colleagues again for bringing this forward.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilmember Pierce.
Speaker 2: Yes. I want to thank everybody. It's great to be here at 1105 and have as many people are still present. So I want to thank my colleagues as well for bringing this item forward. I have had many conversations with.
Speaker 1: Both advocates on.
Speaker 2: Both sides around where do we have this conversation in our city and how do we do it in a way that reaches as many constituents as possible? I have long said that I support some type of management process, something that allows us to get a handle on the rents in our city and understand what those impacts are
Speaker 2: going to be. And I have also said that I have a little bit of some challenges with what is directly in front of us. And having an everything at one time is a bit of a challenge for me.
Speaker 2: So I am thankful to have this item here and. To go through the process to answer these questions as at the same time that the community groups are out there advocating and trying to collect signatures, we need to make sure that we have the facts in front of us so that we can advocate on that.
Speaker 1: So I did have a question for our.
Speaker 2: City attorney just to clarify.
Speaker 1: What this item should.
Speaker 2: And I know there's a lot of questions that will come back. But for tonight, if if the advocates get the signatures and it gets on the ballot and people vote yes on it, is there anything that this council can do to make a change to that ordinance.
Speaker 1: Or does it have.
Speaker 2: To go back to the voters?
Speaker 7: Well, I think the short answer is they cannot it cannot be amended or changed. And I think a couple of the public speakers mentioned that by by the council, the council could put something on the ballot to repeal it or to change it.
Speaker 7: And the voters could vote on that. There could be an initiative that would be a competing initiative that could cancel that out if if in the process of answering all of these questions there or the court determines that maybe some of the provisions of the initiative as written are not constitutional or not valid, then it could be
Speaker 7: changed by the court. But the council could not do that.
Speaker 1: And those flowers look lovely in front of your face. Mr.. You kept bobbing around, though, a nice touch at.
Speaker 2: 11:00 at night. Okay. I just wanted to be clear that and we can also, as a council, if we get these answers back.
Speaker 1: The council could.
Speaker 2: Propose to put something on the ballot that might.
Speaker 1: Be different than what our.
Speaker 2: Voters have in front of them right now.
Speaker 7: It it may it depends. If it's a charter amendment, then maybe you could maybe you couldn't, depending on whether you meet the timeframes and the statutory requirements for the November ballot.
Speaker 2: Okay. Thank you for that. I again, just want to highlight that I didn't hear a lot of comments around the 60 day notice. I get that in my district a great deal and that beach front was one of those factors that seemed to come up a lot.
Speaker 2: And so I want to let my councilmember know that any help that my office can do to work with them to make sure that we're creating a safe place and a safe home for people. That's definitely the number one priority for me.
Speaker 2: In the second District in downtown, we've created 2000 new residential units developing right now. I do agree that we need to add to the housing stock. I also firmly believe that we need a no net loss policy so that any new developments that come.
Speaker 1: Up, we're not losing affordable units on the back end, and that there are several other policies that we should also be.
Speaker 2: Looking at.
Speaker 1: To see what is the.
Speaker 2: Best fit for our city. And so I.
Speaker 1: Do look forward to having these questions.
Speaker 2: Come back. I implore I know today was heated for a lot of folks, but that we don't see this as a black and white issue. I don't see this are when people ask me, are you for rent control, yes or no?
Speaker 2: That's not a question. That's easy to answer because this policy that's in front of us has a lot of detail to it. And so it's about finding the right fit for Long Beach. And that means that we need everybody to be at that table together.
Speaker 1: And so I look forward.
Speaker 2: To the responses coming out and I look forward to sitting down the table with all those stakeholders. So thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Vice Mayor Richardson.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Mr. Mayor. So I want to thank my colleagues for bringing this conversation in front of the city council, this much debate with very little that we can actually vote on tonight. So so thank you for that experiment.
Speaker 3: I'll just say I'll just say so a few things. So, one, I acknowledge the concern on both sides. I am not deaf to it. I hear it. I see it here when I when I hear week after week, we hear people come down and say, hey, I got a 60 week, 60 day notice or my entire block
Speaker 3: , you know, my entire building has gotten a notice. I also hear it when I hear neighbors, my neighbors in North Long Beach, salt of the earth people, working people that work jobs, regular jobs, who have, you know, for one reason or another, maybe one person owned something and another person on to something else, and they got married
Speaker 3: and they end up having a rental property. Right. And they made smart choices and they're afraid of us intervening and jumping in those processes. And, you know, frankly, that that's actually something I do encourage homeownership and figuring out a path to build wealth because we have to figure that out.
Speaker 3: But I'm not ignoring what's happening. I see that one thing I want know is that the housing crisis is real. The housing crisis is real. And I want anybody see that movie, Butterfly Effect, Butterfly Effect, a guy makes a decision, goes back in time, tries to fix decision, it gets worse, goes back in time again.
Speaker 3: Try to fix the decision. It gets worse. And I keep and someone came up and talked about the downtown plan. And I remember that conversation because I remember that conversation because I was chief of. Staff to a councilmember here in the ninth District when that conversation did come up.
Speaker 3: And I know folks don't like revisiting history, but there was a big debate here. And he said investment and development will beget displacement. And someone said if it is good for one area, that should be good for the entire city.
Speaker 3: These antibodies placement loss. And you know, I can't speak for the past council, but I can tell you that the anti displacement laws haven't haven't kicked in. And so while yes. I don't know that I'm you know, I don't know that I'm ready to support rent control outright.
Speaker 3: What I can say is I acknowledge that we need to do something on displacement. We need to address something else significant that happened. Redevelopment, you know, is gone. That was our chief tool to fund housing. It's gone. We have to replace it.
Speaker 3: It's very difficult to build affordable housing without a local source of revenue. So we have to talk about what tough decision is going to make to actually fund housing. I think we need to have a lot more education around this issue.
Speaker 3: You know, I'm going to support this motion tonight, but by no means do I expect these questions are really unfair and biased. Unbiased. I think they're need. I would encourage staff to not just be limited by these questions, but do the diligence and try to present a fair and balanced assessment assessment on it.
Speaker 3: And then the other thing I would say is that someone mentioned that it might be too late to do something about any any specific plans that we've done. I don't know that that's true. I don't know that that's true.
Speaker 3: I think the city is embracing specific plans. We've seen downtown plan, we've seen midtown plan. We've seen see it. We're doing uptown plan. And I think we should look at whether going, going, looking. We look at going back and doing some analysis on whether we really did think about attaching sort of anti displacement laws to specific plans
Speaker 3: if those specific plans do trigger additional investment. I don't I think it was very controversial five years ago. I don't know that it would be as controversial this time. I think in this environment, some people are going to you know, some people are going to say whatever you whatever you suggest is going to be wrong.
Speaker 3: But the reality we have to put all the options on the table here. You can't be in a deficient defensive crouch and say the issue isn't here. I don't want rent control. I don't want just for just calls for eviction.
Speaker 3: But on the other hand, not not really for do something, you know, in a timely manner. And so I acknowledge the work that the city council has done. I acknowledge the leadership people have shown. But in reality, we we haven't produced anything tangible just yet.
Speaker 3: And that needs to happen. That needs to happen. Or I'm afraid that even if this measure doesn't doesn't qualify for the ballot, who's to say that in two years there won't be another measure that would qualify or qualify for the ballot?
Speaker 3: And then our hands are tied to the city council. We need to do our jobs and create public policy faster than we're doing it then we're doing because this issue isn't going to go away. So my thoughts are, so I'm going to vote to support this because I believe education is needed, but I do hope that we
Speaker 3: get some sort of fair and balanced assessment of this. And I thank you for your time.
Speaker 4: Thank you so much. Open up. Thank you. I just have one final comment before we go to the mayor in his final comment, but I just wanted to thank everyone for speaking tonight and in particular, thank you for adapting to the 92nd rule.
Speaker 4: I think it was a great experiment and it worked very well. And there are far more people in the audience than there were the last two meetings. And the body language is a lot better. So thank you. Oh, yeah, yeah.
Speaker 4: If there's no council objection in the future, we're going to I'm going to call that the supernatural and we're going to we're going to do that. Okay. I have a couple a couple closing comments. And I obviously, I support the the the item and thank you, councilman.
Speaker 4: Super on Shirley support getting all the information from the city attorney on the analysis and everyone on on all sides of the issue that came forward tonight. And I want to echo a couple of things that were said.
Speaker 4: The first is that the issue around housing and homelessness is is the issue of our time for the next ten, 20 years. There is no question that the issue around housing, the issue around homelessness is at the top of every single city's agenda, whether it's Long Beach, whether it's San Francisco, whether it's Santa monica.
Speaker 4: With all the other cities that were mentioned tonight, it's the number one issue. What is also true is that people have a variety, different of different opinions of how to get to what I believe most people believe is the same goal, which is ensure that there's enough housing for people making sure that it's people can afford to
Speaker 4: have housing and that we're passing good, smart policies that allow people to live productive lives. Nobody I don't believe anyone, whether you are a landlord and certainly not an advocate for housing, wants to see people suffer or displaced.
Speaker 4: And I think there are. A lot of sometimes I think accusations and insults are thrown around. And I don't believe that there are people that that that enjoy seeing people displace or people suffering. And so I think that all of us want the best for everyone in the city.
Speaker 4: It's how you get there and what you believe is the best policy that takes us there. I think a couple of things are important. I have said, and I continue to believe with every ounce of research that I have done and absorbed, similar to what Councilwoman Pryce said, that the single best way of getting out of this
Speaker 4: crisis, not just in Long Beach, but statewide, is housing production. And and to ensure that there is to ensure that there is consistent, consistent forms of producing housing of all types, and, of course, particularly housing for those experiencing homelessness, for low income folks, for seniors in need, affordability, but also housing at the workforce level.
Speaker 4: And for middle class families. You have to build housing of all types that get us out of where we are right now, which is essentially a math problem where our population is grown, but housing production has not. And so that's why you're seeing the pressures that you're seeing across the state of California and in Long Beach as
Speaker 4: well. I want to also ask, and maybe it's an expansion of the questions or a friendly to the council member or to Mr. City attorney. I think there's also some misinformation about what actually exists in Long Beach currently.
Speaker 4: There's a lot of folks that say we want to have rent control or stabilization or we want this or that. Long Beach has about 6500 units that are rent stabilized. Rent stabilization exists in Long Beach. It has existed for probably 40 years in this community.
Speaker 4: So this idea that rent stabilization doesn't exist is not true. It exists. And I want to make sure we get that exact number maybe and staff can help us with this. Maybe it's 6200 units. Maybe it's 6500 units.
Speaker 4: But the fact is that these units exist in Long Beach and they're mostly in the city of Long Beach. They are for people that are experiencing the people that have disabilities. They're for low income seniors. They're for housing.
Speaker 4: Look the village is at Cabrillo that we support so much in our community out Carmelite cos there's a lot of housing in Long Beach that is already rent stabilized. It's also true that we have increased, not decreased the amount of rent stabilized units in Long Beach over the last few years.
Speaker 4: And so the way we have done that is through production. And so every time we build a project, Councilman Gonzales alluded to about 300 rent stabilized units that we currently are building right now in the first District. Every time we build a project like on Anaheim in PCH or senior or low income senior housing or expand like
Speaker 4: we just did 120 units in West Long Beach by the villages of Cabrillo. We are expanding that rent stabilized number from, you know, 6000 to 60 500 to 7000 and higher. And so what I hope is while there is disagreement whether rent control actually works or causes disinvestment in housing production, which I believe a lot of the
Speaker 4: research does, does lead us to, I hope we can I hope we can all agree that housing production and expanding rent stabilized units is beneficial to everyone in the city of Long Beach. And I and I would think that whether you're a property owner or whether you are an advocate or a tenant wants to see us, look
Speaker 4: at how do we increase the amount of rent stabilized units that we have for seniors, low income families and so forth. And I believe you do that by focusing strongly on production in addition to that. I want to just make sure and when we when we come back with this is the more information that we have on
Speaker 4: these units, these units that have existed for decades in Long Beach have covenants on them. And we've worked really hard this the city has invested millions and millions of dollars on keeping these units, had to have actual covenants.
Speaker 4: You may not hear about it or read about it in the paper, but time after time, meeting after meeting, this council is voting on putting resources into keeping these rent stabilized and affordable. And I want to make sure that we're also getting that information back to to the city council.
Speaker 4: And so the last thing I'll say is, I hope that over the course of the next few months, we obviously all have different opinion, different opinions on how to get to affordability. But I do hope that we can focus on the areas where we all agree.
Speaker 4: And I would hope that we can all agree that production supporting the rent stabilized units that we currently have are appropriate are appropriate ways of trying to deal with this, the statewide crisis. And so I want to thank everyone for for coming out.
Speaker 4: I know that we don't all agree completely on this issue. And that's and that's okay. But we'll continue to make this a big. An important part of our agenda and and say one thing I heard a few folks say, you know, we need to address this.
Speaker 4: We do more. I agree. We need to do more, but so does a state. We lost almost all of our affordable housing dollars through the loss of redevelopment, which Vice Mayor Richardson said, which is a total disgrace and our ability to actually build more housing.
Speaker 4: But I also believe that this council has done a lot of work on this issue, whether it's been through the land use element, whether it's been through the 26 policy ideas that this council passed last year on on housing production.
Speaker 4: So we'll continue to do that. I look forward to work with everyone that wants to be at the table. I plan on having a lot of conversations on this topic, as is every mayor in the state over the next six months, year, years, in the in the future on this topic.
Speaker 4: And I invite everyone to be at that table in the future. So with that, there's a motion in a second by Councilmember Super and I strongly support this item. Members, please cast your votes.
Speaker 5: Y'all November.
Speaker 4: Motion carries. Thank you very much. Thank you. And we will. We're going to go ahead and move on to item 12, please. Just the next item on the agenda.

Speaker 0: Motion case.
Speaker 3: Thank you. I don't. Number 19, please.
Speaker 0: Item 19 is a report from Technology and Innovation, Financial Management and Public Works recommendation to amend contract with 20 properties, Long Beach to Civic Center technology, infrastructure and in an amount not to exceed 7 million and authorize city manager to execute multiple lease purchase agreements and financing documents with Bank of America Public Capital Corporation for the Financing
Speaker 0: of Civic Center Technology in an aggregated amount not to exceed 8.4 million citywide.
Speaker 3: Is there a public comment on this item saying No members, please cast your vote?
Speaker 10: Councilmember I mean. Vice Mayor Can we get a brief staff report on this?
Speaker 3: Councilman Alston I just outline with processes. As soon as we as soon as the item comes up, I'm going to look for the left or the right signal. If you requested, I'm trying to be respectful and get folks out of here.
Speaker 10: I'm being respectful. We'll do it. There were other people that actually motion to seconded. So.
Speaker 3: So that's fine. We'll go through a staff report if staff could be brief and then moving forward, I'm going to go through and ask everyone if they want comment before we move forward. Staff was going to have a presentation.
Speaker 4: Lyrics and.
Speaker 1: Good evening. A mayor and members of City Council or vice mayor. This on December 5th, technology innovation presented that $67 million of critical technology infrastructure needs to the city. And on that night council authorized city major submit these purchase transactions for these technology needs at future council meetings.
Speaker 1: So last week we started with those and this week we continue again with the item that you just passed and this item. And I'm going to turn it over to Jason Lee, our Infrastructure Services Bureau manager for the Staff Report.
Speaker 4: Vice Mayor and members of the City Council before use a recommendation to authorize city manager to amend a contract with plenary properties for purchase and installation of civic center technology infrastructure at a cost of $7 million and execute a lease purchase agreement with Bank of America Public Corporation for the Financing of Civic Center Technology Infrastructure.
Speaker 4: As background, the Civic Center Technology Infrastructure will include foundational components for the following areas the council chambers, the conference rooms, access controls, cameras, wireless and wired networks, the data center and cellular distributed antenna systems. In December 2014, City Council selected plenary to construct, operate and maintain the new Civic Center plenary is is in the best position to
Speaker 4: purchase install the identify technology infrastructure that did the design equipment costs were and equipment costs were extensively evaluated by a team of construction, engineering, design and technology consultants to ensure the solutions were consistent with the Civic Center design and were competitively priced.
Speaker 4: The need for plenary to provide these foundational systems was identified and included in the equipment category of the critical technology infrastructure needs. Presentation to the City Council on December 5th, 2017. The the source of the Civic Center technology costs of $7 million is is the proceeds of lease purchase financing for term of up to 15 years.
Speaker 4: The annual estimated lease payments and lifecycle costs of 1.1.8 $9 million will be recovered from client operations or client departments via the Technology MRU. We will be coming back for the $7 million appropriation during the second budget adjustment.
Speaker 4: With that, I conclude my report and would be happy to take any questions.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Any public comment on this item? Please cast your vote.
Speaker 0: Councilmember Pearce motion case.
Speaker 3: Thank you. So we're going to go through the rest of these items. If I don't see the maker of the motion or someone cued up, we are going to continue through these items. So the appropriate thing to do would be to queue up if you have something to say.

Speaker 0: Motion case.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Number 26, please.
Speaker 0: Adam 26 is a communication councilman andrews recommendation to approve use of the six council districts one time infrastructure funds in the amount of 15,000 to support a partnership with Cambodian town for the 10th annual Cambodia Town Cultural Fest.
Speaker 3: Councilman Andrews.
Speaker 4: Yes.
Speaker 11: Yes. Supporting this time has become a tradition, especially in my office. I am very excited to be a co-sponsor as we celebrate the vibrant culture and heritage of the Cambodian community. I would like to amend the amount of this transfer from 15000 to 10000, keeping the source and destination to the same.
Speaker 3: Thank you, Councilmember. Anything?
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 3: Thank you. Any public comment on asylum saying members, please cast your vote.
Speaker 0: Mission case.
Speaker 3: All right. So the meeting is about to conclude, and I'm going to call for public comment if anyone like to address the city council on any issues, seeing none. We're going to go into the ladies. Oh, come on down.

Speaker 4: And then we'll go into the into the regular agenda, as we always do. And so with that, I do want to begin with our first hearing that we will be hearing this evening, which will which is the hearing related to our the Board of Harbor Commissioners action.
Speaker 4: And around the port, it's hearing number three. If you can please read this Madam Clerk.
Speaker 1: Report from.
Speaker 2: Harbor.
Speaker 0: Commission recommendation to receive supporting documentation into the record and conduct a public hearing on two appeals of the Harbor Commissioners Certification of the Final Environmental Impact Report for the.
Speaker 2: Pier B.
Speaker 0: On Dock.
Speaker 9: Rail Support Facility Project.
Speaker 0: And adopt a resolution denying the.
Speaker 9: Appeals.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. With that, I'm going to go and turn this over to our assistant city manager who will introduce the item. Or maybe someone else will be introducing the item. What is it? Okay, so we'll we'll have the hour.
Speaker 4: We'll go and start off with staff that will introduce the item.
Speaker 1: Okay.
Speaker 9: Hi. My name is Dawn McIntosh. I'm a deputy city attorney. As you see, the city manager is not here tonight, so I'll be teeing this up for you and filling you in on the process.
Speaker 1: The appeal.
Speaker 9: Before you is somewhat unique from the harbor department, so I'm going to go over the.
Speaker 1: Process. On January 22nd, 2018, the Board of Harbor Commissioners adopted a resolution.
Speaker 9: Which certified the Environmental Impact.
Speaker 1: Report for the Pier be on Dock Rail Support Facility.
Speaker 9: They made some associated findings that are required for that certification.
Speaker 1: And they approved.
Speaker 9: That project and issued a permit for development of the project. As you know, under the city.
Speaker 1: Charter, the Board of Harbor Commissioners has sole jurisdiction over projects in the port, such as this.
Speaker 9: Pier be on dock rail support facility project.
Speaker 1: However, under the city's.
Speaker 9: Municipal code section 21.20 1.507, the environmental determination under the California Environmental Quality Act.
Speaker 1: Which was made by the board for the project, may be appealed to this body to such appeals were.
Speaker 9: Filed by Phillip Steel Company and Superior Electric Advertising. And those appeals are before you tonight.
Speaker 4: And Madam City Attorney, I just want to make sure, just as a reminder for the clerk, before we do need to do so, before we do any sort of comment, we'll do the ask.
Speaker 1: Thank you very. The scope of the appeals before you tonight.
Speaker 9: Is quite narrow. The city council's.
Speaker 1: Jurisdiction is limited to a determination of whether the port's environmental review resulting in the final environmental impact.
Speaker 9: Report was adequate under the California Environmental Quality Act. The City Council conducts a de novo review, which means that you.
Speaker 1: Judge the facts presented to you and you make your determination on the evidence without deference to this made by the Board of Harbor Commissioners. It's important to remember.
Speaker 9: However, that the Council is not considering the merits of the project itself. The only thing before you is the environmental determination.
Speaker 1: The process for the hearing will be as follows Port staff and appellants will each.
Speaker 9: Have 20 minutes to present.
Speaker 1: Port staff will begin.
Speaker 9: And present the staff report, which will take approximately 10 minutes. After their presentation, the two appellants will have 20 minutes to present their appeals divided among them as they choose.
Speaker 1: At that time, the port staff.
Speaker 9: Will respond with their rebuttal for the remainder of their 20 minutes. At this point, you may take public comment and then take it behind the rail. After you've received all the evidence, you have two options.
Speaker 1: First, you may deny the appeals and.
Speaker 9: Approve a resolution affirming the second determination made by the Board of Harbor Commissioners.
Speaker 1: Or you may grant one or both of the appeals, set aside the environmental.
Speaker 9: Determination, and remand the matter to the Board of Harbor Commissioners for further action. I'd like to introduce additional counsel who are here with me tonight.
Speaker 6: To my right is David Alvarez.
Speaker 9: He is also an attorney with the city attorney's office who handles matters for the harbor department. Behind me is Cathy Jensen of Routan and Tucker. She is an attorney who specializes in environmental matters and has been advising the port for some time.
Speaker 9: Also behind me is Heather Tom. She's the director of environmental planning. She will be presenting the staff report tonight. And next to her is Matt Armes, who is the assistant director of environmental planning. And with that, Mr. Mayor, I will turn it back over to you.
Speaker 4: Okay. Thank you. The as far as the additional part of the presentation, will you be doing that? I'm assuming the port staff will be doing that right now. Yes. Okay, then. Then if we can just hear from our harbor staff.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Good evening.
Speaker 2: Honorable Mayor Garcia, members of the city council, the harbor departments before you this evening to respond to two appeals that have been filed against the environmental impact report for the pier be on dock rail support facility project that was recently certified by the Harbor Commission will present a brief staff report describing the project, a summary of the
Speaker 2: appeals filed and our responses. Culminating an eight year process where the harbor department responded to over 300 comments on the draft air. Our board held a hearing on January 22nd where they heard presentations, the testimony of 42 public speakers, and they asked numerous questions.
Speaker 2: The Harbor Commission found the air to be in compliance with the California Environmental Quality Act, or SEQUA, and approved the proposed project. The project is located in an industrial area southwest of Anaheim Street and the I-70 ten Freeway.
Speaker 2: Tracks from the facility connect to the iron dock, rail infrastructure in the terminals and trains depart the facility via the Alameda corridor. Rail is the most efficient, economical and least polluting means of moving cargo inland across the country.
Speaker 2: With the Pier B facility, the port seeks to enhance and expand the existing rail facility at the northern edge of our harbor district. The new facility would provide for longer arrival and departure tracks for today's longer trains. It would increase productivity at our terminals by providing them the ability to build longer trains on dock at their facilities
Speaker 2: with more storage and staging tracks. The result will be more efficient on dock rail operations to promote the transport of cargo containers on trains versus transport of cargo containers on trucks. To opt out of rail facilities, the project would also improve motorist and rail safety by eliminating an at grade crossing at the Ninth Street and Pico Avenue
Speaker 2: . The on dock rail support facility would be built in three phases over an estimated seven years. Construction of the project would create more than 1100 jobs. The approved project would expand the existing PRB rail facility from 12 tracks to 48 tracks, providing room to stage trains up to 10,000 feet long.
Speaker 2: Expanding this rail facility will carry out the goals of the port's master plan and Clean Air Action Plan and will allow more cargo to leave the port complex by rail versus having to go by truck. Currently, about one quarter of the cargo is loaded or unloaded within the port and moved by trains to meet our Clean Air
Speaker 2: Action Plan goals for improving air quality. Our aim is to increase the use of on dock rail to at least 35%. The potential impacts of the project were analyzed appropriately. Per SICA, using all of the relevant methodologies and all feasible mitigation measures were applied.
Speaker 2: All potential impacts associated with the project, construction and operation were properly disclosed. Following our board certification of the air. Two appeals were filed to the Long Beach City Council, representing the interests of Phillip Steel Company and superior electrical advertising.
Speaker 2: This figure shows the location of Phillips and Superior relative to the project site. The three locations owned by Phillips and the property leased by Superior are all located on Anaheim Street outside of the project footprint to the north.
Speaker 2: None of the properties have been identified for relocation or acquisition. The area where the project is located is zoned industrial, which is specifically slated for heavy industry manufacturing, railyards and port related and maritime industry facilities. The Harbor Department has provided detailed, written responses to each of the grounds for the appeals.
Speaker 2: I'll provide a summary of the key issues raised by both appellants. First, Phillips argues that various road closures will negatively affect traffic on Anaheim Street, obstruct access to its businesses and result in traffic delays. The air traffic analysis fully assess the operation of Anaheim Street during the peak construction activity and operations of the project did not identify
Speaker 2: any significant impacts. Phillips Employees and customers will continue to have direct access to each of Phillips facilities. Further, while travel times are not an environmental issue required for analysis and are secure, the estimated travel time delays of approximately 3 minutes are addressed and disclosed in the air.
Speaker 2: Also, the port is committed to work with businesses and contractors to develop a transportation management plan and will minimize impacts to the community and businesses during construction. Superior Electricals Appeal asserts that the air did not address the issue of train dust because this issue was not previously raised by Superior or any other commenter before or during the
Speaker 2: proceedings before the Harbor Commission as required under the Long Beach Municipal Code. This issue may not be appealed to the City Council, and the appeal on this ground should be denied. That said, particulate matter impacts associated with fugitive dust during construction and operation were appropriately analyzed in the air quality section of the air and the project will
Speaker 2: comply with South Coast Air Quality Management District Requirements for dust control. Superior also appeals the determination excuse me, Superior also appeals the determination that the railyard is industrial in nature and that the railyard is compatible with neighboring businesses.
Speaker 2: The zoning designation in the vicinity of the project is industrial railyards or expressly permitted uses in the General Industrial District and the port related industrial district where the project is located. Ellipse also contends that the significant air quality impacts identified in the air will negatively affect their employees.
Speaker 2: The air appropriately analyzed the potential health effects of the project and identified that cancer and non-cancer health impacts from the project would be less than significant. Impacts from nitrogen dioxide would be significant and unavoidable, as was appropriately disco disclosed in the air.
Speaker 2: The area where Phillip's properties are located already experience high background levels of snow too, and the project's contribution is small in comparison to the background conditions. Furthermore, the potential and O2 exceedances at Philips locations are expected to be temporary and occur infrequently during construction.
Speaker 2: Next. Phillips claims that the scope of the sequence analysis is inadequate and the IIR provides no plan for acquisition, relocation or compensation for adjacent businesses. The air fully analyzed all of the potential environmental impacts in compliance with Sequa and demonstrates that there is no need to relocate or acquire businesses outside of the project footprint.
Speaker 2: Phillips also identified a comment letter submitted by Caltrans on the Draft de Air, where they recommended the Ninth Street alternative. The air analyzed potential impacts at numerous street intersections and roadway segments and did not identify any significant impacts associated with ground transportation as it relates to public safety.
Speaker 2: The removal of the A-grade crossing at Ninth Street would result in a public safety improvement. Recently, in a letter to the port. Caltrans expressed support for the project and the Harbor Commission certification of this secret document. Caltrans also stated that the objectives of the Pier B project run in parallel with those of the IE 710 corridor and
Speaker 2: Shoemaker Bridge projects which overlap with the footprint of this project, especially those objectives which seek to improve efficiency and safety across modes of travel. This letter has been provided in the staff report. Phillips also argues that access to emergency services included at the close, including the closest major hospital, were not sufficiently studied.
Speaker 2: While emergency response times are not an environmental issue covered by sequa unless new infrastructure is required. The air did describe the locations of emergency responders, which are located near and on all sides of the project. Fire Chief Terry testified at the board hearing that his department reviewed the project and concluded that there would be no significant impact
Speaker 2: to emergency response capability. Further access routes to the closest hospitals at St Mary Medical Center and Long Beach Memorial would not change as a result of the project. Finally, Phillips states that the air was difficult to follow, should have been recirculated due to a number of changes, and that findings were not supported.
Speaker 2: The changes that were made from the draft document to the final were appropriate under sequa and served to reduce the potential impacts associated with the project in response to the comments received. Further, the findings offered 65 pages of detailed, factually supported findings, and the appellant did not specifically identify what changes lacked factual support.
Speaker 2: Neither appellant has identified any flaw in the ER analysis or explained why the board certification of the final air was in error. Therefore, the appeals should be denied this evening as described by the City Attorney's Office and considering the merits of the appeals by Phillips Steel and Superior Electrical City Council as tasked with determining if the Harbor
Speaker 2: Department certification of the final air is in compliance with the requirements of SEQUA. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. With that, we're going to hear from the appellants. So we'll put the clock at 20 minutes total. If I can, please have the appellants. You can feel free to use your time however you would like.
Speaker 4: Can have both. The appellants please come down. And you'll both just use part of the time, I assume? Yes. Okay. Whenever you're ready, sir. Are we good?
Speaker 0: Yes. Can you please raise your right hand and say I do or I will at the end of the statement to you and each of you solemnly state that the testimony you may give and the calls now in pending before this.
Speaker 9: Body shall be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God.
Speaker 4: I do. Good evening, honorable council members and other officials. My name is Darrell Phillips. I'm the proprietor of Phillips Steel Company here in Long Beach, a company that's been here for over 103 years. I'm no attorney. However, I have two general objections to the ports admitting the admitted rubberstamping approval of the C.A.R..
Speaker 4: First, the proposed plan specifically creates unnecessary burdens for the on a number of local businesses to the point of actual destruction of companies, some of which have been pillars in our community and the city of Long Beach for over 100 years.
Speaker 4: The plan clearly designed to benefit the east side of the city while placing the costs of these benefits on your neighbors to the west side. This is patently unfair. And while the E.R. admits much of this discriminatory treatment, it is deceptive to the point of misleading.
Speaker 4: In its descriptions. Second, the proposed plan admittedly creates new levels of toxic pollution, health problems and destroys programs within our city that deal with the homeless, mental disorders and residents and others in need. It places the burdens associated with the unfettered expansion on those too poor or too conflicted to capably object.
Speaker 4: For these reasons, we ask the City Council to reopen the E.R. and request further findings towards mitigation and impact. More details as to these matters is found in the February 5th, 2018 appeal filed by our company, by our Council on behalf of our company, Philip Steel Company.
Speaker 4: Here are two purpose specific examples of my points. Just one part of the air admits that the project will materially increase nitrogen dioxide emissions. One of the most toxic emissions known demand short term exposure causes asthma, wheezing, hospital admissions and the E.R. visits.
Speaker 4: Long term exposure, which will admittedly occur with the port's plan, not only affects physical health of the people, but causes hazy air and nutrient pollution in our oceans. In its response, the report states that increases of carbon monoxide, nitrogen oxide and nitrogen dioxide are, quote, simply unavoidable.
Speaker 4: The port also concludes that the quote, quote project would also resort result in significant and unavoidable air emissions and health risks impacts on the cumulative impact level, unquote. These admissions occur just before the Port admits that the project will increase greenhouse gases higher than acceptable by the Southern California AQ, M.D..
Speaker 4: How can the city knowingly enter into a program designed to generate new and unsafe levels of toxic air and water pollution? Maybe the port has determined this is to be in the best interests of the city and the Treasury.
Speaker 4: But I can imagine. That the class action lawyers are chomping at the bit. Another victim is the Long Beach Health and Human Services Building, which directly abuts the proposed new rails and my company. I am doubtful it is permitted to object to the project given the inherent conflict of interest.
Speaker 4: There will be noise, vibration, toxic pollution, interference with school, the homeless and the city's most vulnerable inhabitants. Let's just consider the noise. Noise is measured. Lager. I knew I was going to mess up this word. Lager and mythically.
Speaker 4: Close enough, for example. Normal conversion. Normal conversation is 60 to 70 decibels. A full blown rock concert is 125 decibels. However, a train horn is 152 decibels, equal to a jet taking off at about 25 meters. At this level.
Speaker 4: Eardrums burst. We do not see this addressed anywhere in the air. The port claims that we say now, the port claims that nothing we say now can interfere with its move forward. And none of the points we make are technically violations of sequel.
Speaker 4: For example, Square requires a ten day notice on the adoption of the final EIA. Did we get 11 days to analyze the thousands of pages before the port hearing? No, we got ten. We were supposed to have 90 days to consider the initial EIA, but the hearing was only 30 days after the last publication notice.
Speaker 4: So did the port technically technically comply? Perhaps, but it did so in a manner least designed to give notice and least designed to provide time to investigate and respond. We do not believe the City Council must simply. Sit back and allow the poor to hide behind technical defenses while its businesses and most vulnerable residential residents are devastated
Speaker 4: by the willful and knowing acts. Therefore. I ask you, please, to postpone your vote here this evening. Come to the west side. Meet us. Meet the people, meet the business owners, hear our concerns, work with us to formulate equitable and workable plans.
Speaker 4: If your goal is to disrupt the environment. Disrupt and displace businesses and its employees. If your goal is to cut off the West Side emergency services, if your goal is to impose detrimental health risks to your citizens. If your goal is to have a complaint in mandamus, then congratulations.
Speaker 4: You have succeeded. Please postpone your vote. Come meet us. Hear our story. Thank you for your time. Thank you very much. And next, we'll have the next speaker in the appellant group. Pablo, do you have the remote? Good evening.
Speaker 4: My name is Stange Anoka, along with my partner, Jim Sterk. We are the owners of superior electrical advertising. Jim and I have worked together for 49 years, two thirds of my lifetime. So this is an emotional issue for me.
Speaker 4: I started at the bottom in 1969 after getting out of the out of the U.S. Navy. Worked my way up to management, went to school nights. And when the owner passed away in 1998, Jim and I purchased the company.
Speaker 4: We paid $7.1 million for the company. We borrowed. We mortgaged our houses. We did everything we could because we wanted to keep the business in Long Beach because somebody else wanted to buy the company and move it to Orange County.
Speaker 4: Superior has 125 employees. Of these 112 125 employees, 43 are Long Beach residents. One third of our workforce are Long Beach residents. I am. I am. I'm a Long Beach resident now. I'm in your district. So when we have an option to hire somebody, if we have equal, you know, equal people we chose, if one lives in
Speaker 4: Long Beach, we checked we chose the people, though whoever lives in Long Beach, we worked two shifts. We have employees on site inside and outside our building for 22 hours a day. We do over $25 million a year in signs and we pay a lot of taxes.
Speaker 4: According to the air, my back gate is 125 feet from the first rail track. If you turn around and you look at the picture right behind you, that's how far that's how close the trains are going to be to our business.
Speaker 4: This is the wrong project for the west side. Remember, the West Side also includes schools and homes east of the L.A. River. These are these homes and these schools will be affected. We are we had breakfast with Mr. Gonzalez last week, and we're talking about the issues of the of the trains.
Speaker 4: And there was an issue brought up about the train whistles. Mr. Gonzalez noted that she can hear the train whistles in her downtown home. So I'm wondering how loud will the whistle be at Cesar Chavez School and at Edison School when there are ten blocks closer than the downtown area to those rail yards?
Speaker 4: It's a it's a that L.A. River is not that wide and the tracks are right on the other side of the L.A. River. Let's talk about the west side. The west side industrial area is own I.G. Industrial general.
Speaker 4: The I.G. Drift District is intended to promote an industrial area where land is preserved, preserved for industry and protect it from non-industrial uses. A rail yard is not industrial use. There are some 300 businesses on the West Side, 2000 workers, 2000 men and women.
Speaker 4: How will they be protected from a 48 yard rail yard? The rail yard does not fall into the IG classification. It's not right for that area. What does a what does a 48 yard rail yard look like? It looks like that that's what 48 tracks looks like.
Speaker 4: If you look at the picture behind us, that's that's 48, that's 44, 45 rows. So it's massive. That's going to be in my back yard. Well, let's talk about Superior. We are in the old Coca-Cola bottling building. I invited everyone.
Speaker 4: I invited all of you to. To come and meet with us. And the only Lena had breakfast wasn't a talked about it, but she's been to our plant many times, and Al Austin sent his deputy down to to meet with us and see what we do.
Speaker 4: It's hard for you to realize how close and how much the train is going to affect affect us without being there firsthand. And Darrell Phillips was right when he said that you should postpone this and come down and take a look firsthand.
Speaker 4: We have a 50,000 square foot manufacturing plant and a 50,000 square foot open yard. We work in the open yard and store finish lines in the yard. We manufacture high end signage. Here we are. What are the most expensive flying companies on the West Coast?
Speaker 4: At any time there can be a half a million dollars worth of product finished science sitting in our yard ready to install. Our clients are businesses like McDonald's, Starbucks, CBS, Disney, Universal, Dunkin Donuts, The Giant, don't it, on Seventh Street and PCH for Dunkin Donuts.
Speaker 4: We did that, don't it? The the sign you see in front of the Performing Arts Center facing facing Ocean Boulevard. We did that sign, Gladstone's, the Pike Parking Structure. Our signs are in every district in Long Beach and not only in Long Beach, but across the country.
Speaker 4: So I'm just wondering how we can do business, you know, a stone's throw from our backyard. We're going to have whistles blowing all day long, screeching train wheels, metal on metal, coupling and uncoupling all day long. Especially the crushing sound coupling makes air pollution that wouldn't include dust that will affect the product we have in our yard
Speaker 4: . And Blythe, tell me how we do, how we entertain clients, clients, many of them looking at finished products in our back yard. How do we protect our products? Signs that are 100,000, $200,000 signs? You know, you can spend an hour and air anywhere you want.
Speaker 4: Nobody writes or presents a bad idea. According to the air, the port plans to use electric trains in the rail yard, but diesel locomotives will be used to pick up the 10,000 foot long trains. Not one diesel, but four or five diesels, maybe more.
Speaker 4: I learned yesterday that what's going to happen is that there will be two diesels in the front and two diesels in the rear. That means that diesel engines will have to come from the Wilmington area all the way across the rail yard to the east side, where they will get to that will where they will get on
Speaker 4: the back of a 10,000 foot train and push the train. So these diesels are going to travel through our backyard. The Earth states that this rail yard meets all Section eight UMD guidelines. But read a couple of lines in the air on page 11 dash tool for the four areas of environmental concern.
Speaker 4: Noise, vibration, air quality and transportation have been thoroughly evaluated in the draft. EIA only air quality impacts have been determined to be significant. On page 11, Dash 212, after considerable analysis determined there will be less than to say that these will be less than significant.
Speaker 4: The only exception being air quality impacts, which were determined to be significantly adverse. So air quality will be significantly adverse. If I stay here 125 feet for the rail yard, I will be subjecting my employees to noise and significantly adverse air quality.
Speaker 4: The first time one of my employees has a breathing issue. I smell a lawsuit. So what can Superior do? Not much. We can close our doors. After 62 years, we can. We can just shut our doors down to.
Speaker 4: We can move. But moving a company of our size is probably more expensive than we can afford. And move. Where? How do we find a 50,000 square foot building with a 50,000 square foot open yard, which we need?
Speaker 4: There are no properties in Long Beach that are available at beginning of this presentation. I said it's an emotional issue for me. It's an emotional issue for my partner, too. We've been working together for nearly 50 years and we have many employees that have been there for 20 years, 30 years, and we have our two sons there
Speaker 4: , my son and my partner's son. They've been with us for over 25 years. Our legacy was to leave the company to our sons one day. Well, that may not happen, you know, or if it does happen, it's going to be very difficult.
Speaker 4: Approving the railyard in its present format is the wrong decision for the West Side. Because we do not fall in the footprint of the rail yard. The Port of Long Beach position is that we are not directly impacted.
Speaker 4: Important words directly impacted. I strongly disagree that 125 feet from that yard is directly impacted. The port of Long Beach and the city of Long Beach will be changing the lives of many people. There are studies done by many universities across the country on rail yards, and they all conclude residents and employees near rail yards are expected
Speaker 4: to suffer asthma, cardiac disease, cancer, premature, premature death and at a higher rate than someone who lives four miles from a rail yard. You can see the trains, but you can't see the air pollution. The rail yard is wrong for superior.
Speaker 4: It is wrong for Philip Steele. It is wrong for everyone south of Anaheim Street. It is in the wrong. It is it is wrong for the entire West Side. I got it. One minute left. Good. You know, we met with the port yesterday.
Speaker 4: They came down to our facility. Not the first time. We've met one couple of times. We've met up with them at their office. And, you know, I think the port can see that the up the property south of Anaheim Street between Anaheim and 12th Street are in a zone and everybody in that zone is affected.
Speaker 4: Everybody in that zone is going to lose business. They're going to be hurt. They're going to be sick. They're just too close to that property. A 12 foot buffer is not enough. So I think you just need to really think of what you're doing to a half a dozen businesses that are in that limbo area.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. And we're going to go ahead and go back to the hearing order. And we do have now an opportunity for rebuttal from staff. So please.
Speaker 2: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Sir. Please, I the it's part of the hearing that will happen. So I will have it handled. So. Thank you, sir. Go ahead.
Speaker 2: Thank you. The Environmental Impact Report Process, the development of the process for this project has been going on for eight years, and it's been a process that we've taken very seriously. We've done our due diligence and preparing all of the technical analyzes, looking at all of the opportunities to reduce the impacts of the project to the extent
Speaker 2: feasible, and making sure that we have a robust process. As we went through this, we had numerous meetings in the community with different groups. We also.
Speaker 1: Had all of the required.
Speaker 2: Processes under secure with proper notifications, proper review times for the draft document. We're required under Sequoia to have a 45 day review period. When the draft document was released, we extended that comment period to 90 days and we held three public hearings as opposed to the one that's required.
Speaker 2: We also had the public hearing with our board when they certified the document and we had the documentation out under that, the required times for that. We feel that we've had a very robust process. We've had numerous meetings with the appellants that have presented before you today as well, and we will continue to work with them to
Speaker 2: address their concerns as the project moves forward through the design, the construction and the operation phases.
Speaker 1: The project did.
Speaker 2: Identify the analysis, did identify that there will be significant and unavoidable impacts for nitrogen oxide emissions at the through the analysis near the.
Speaker 1: Project area.
Speaker 2: And those impacts will occur during construction and operation. Looking specifically at the locations for the appellants for Philips, there was a receptor that we used for the modeling that identified that the impacts will be infrequent during the construction process and and that the majority of the impacts to NOx are actually coming from the background conditions.
Speaker 2: And the project contribution adds about a quarter of the the impacts that are seen at that site. But the 75% of the impacts are actually from the background conditions. There were no significant impacts identified from no noise and vibration associated with the project and also for the traffic evaluation.
Speaker 2: There were no significant traffic impacts from the project and. All of the appropriate sensitive receptors. We did look at residences. We did look at schools for both noise and air quality analyzes, and there all of the potential impacts to sensitive receptors.
Speaker 2: We're also properly disclosed within the document. The rail yard is an appropriate use for this location. It is located within the port industrial zone and rail yards are explicitly listed and listed as a eligible use. And in that area and building our additional rail infrastructure is consistent with our port master plan and our Clean Air Action Plan
Speaker 1: . If I may, I would just. Kathy Jensen with the law firm of Ratana Tucker, the city is secure attorney on this project. I would like to point out that secure is a disclosure requirement. It does not preclude the City Council from approving a project or the the Board of Harbor Commissioners from approving a project that has significant
Speaker 1: impacts. There are requirements to mitigate to the extent possible. There were findings made that this project has mitigated to the extent possible all of the impacts, not any of the appellate issues are saying that there was a disclosure that wasn't made.
Speaker 1: Instead, they are referring to disclosures that were made in the air. There was a reference to there only being 30 days from the closure of the comment period to the approval of the project. That is incorrect. The comment period closed on March 13, 2017, and the hearing before the board was not until January 12, 2018.
Speaker 1: And I think that's the only other issue.
Speaker 2: At this time, I'd also like to conclude with comments from our executive director, Mario Cordero.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor Garcia. And members of the City Council. The Pier B on dock rail support. The City project. It was an essential component to the port's mission of being the green port of the future and furthering our commitment to sustainable development.
Speaker 4: As you may know, in 2017, the port had its best year, moving 7.5 million containers. Best. In our 107 year history. The Pier B project not only enhances efficient movement of container cargo. But also in addition mitigates potential roadway congestion.
Speaker 4: And clearly and I will say again and clearly a less polluting freight transport system. You have heard commentary on both sides and both sides admit there's been a lot of dialog. There has been meetings. The port has never been dismissive of the concerns.
Speaker 4: And we will continue to commit to engage with our stakeholders and engage with those impacted, whether directly or indirectly. And thus, I would respectfully request that the Council confirm and affirm the certification of the final Environment Environmental Impact Report for their Pier B on Dock Rail Facility Project.
Speaker 4: Thank you so much. Thank you, Mr. Kudo. I appreciate that. We're going to go into public comments. And Madam Clerk, do we need to do an oath for anyone that is going to make public comment and city attorney?
Speaker 4: We need to do that. Should we do one, one, one Big Arthur?
Speaker 1: I think. Did the earlier oath handle it for the speakers.
Speaker 9: Or do you need to do that now?
Speaker 1: The oath was for the.
Speaker 9: Speakers, the.
Speaker 1: Appellants.
Speaker 4: So no, nothing. If not, no need for public comment.
Speaker 0: Not for public comment.
Speaker 5: Okay.
Speaker 4: So. So now we will. You know, I'm not. Guys, please, no one. No one. Talk from the audience. We've got a handle. Thank you very much. Now we're going to be having public comment on the hearing. So if you're here to comment on the hearing, please come forward.
Speaker 4: Thank you.
Speaker 1: Hello. I'm Stephanie Dora, resident of Long Beach and business owner here, who will be very close to the proposed project. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I implore you to consider the job you were elected to do to serve this great city and as the people who live in it.
Speaker 1: Please be mindful that the vote you cast here today has a very real effect on and carries risks for the city of Long Beach and its people. The votes cast today in this room will change the city and its landscape forever.
Speaker 1: They may very well carry negative effects for Long Beach as citizens and businesses for years to come. Once you cast your votes, there are no do overs, no take backs, and you will be personally responsible beyond the reaches of your time on this council.
Speaker 1: The proposed pier be on dock rail support facility project is more dangerous than the ER report let on only more in-depth studies and considerations can prove that it will have very little effect on minimizing the number of trucks on the road and will inevitably increase pollution.
Speaker 1: It will obliterate small businesses on the west side of Long Beach, isolate its inhabitants and limit routes to downtown, thus decreasing access to restaurants, shopping, parks, meeting places and other vital resources, all of which will impact downtown businesses, residents and employees.
Speaker 1: Past studies following completion.
Speaker 9: Of other cities rail.
Speaker 1: Yards have proved that with rail yards come increases in crime, illness, pollution, unemployment and decline in property value. As a business owner and a resident here in this city.
Speaker 9: I am all too aware of the importance of responsible.
Speaker 1: Usage of car compliant equipment and the need for improvements in the transportation industry. But more trains so close to schools, houses and our main tourist attractions is not the answer for the city of Long Beach. Unlike other cities such as San Bernardino, L.A. or Oakland, just to name a few, we are a very small city.
Speaker 1: Our industrial parks are in very close proximity to the rest of our city. The estimated reach of pollutants from trains found in studies from places like London, China and even parts of the US suggest that they reach up to four miles.
Speaker 1: Ladies and gentlemen.
Speaker 9: Four miles goes a very long way here in Long Beach.
Speaker 1: Increases in cancer, asthma. Noise, dust and carbons will be painfully noticeable here in our beloved city. The negative impact on my family's business personally will include but not be limited to increases in noise pollution. Increase air pollution such as carbons and dust affecting myself, my.
Speaker 9: Indoor and outdoor employees.
Speaker 1: Increased maintenance costs to equipment such as filters, engine maintenance, upkeep and vehicle security. Decreased terminal access. Decreased access to and from our facility. Decrease in property value, increase in security costs.
Speaker 9: Potential changes to the heavyweight corridor.
Speaker 1: Increase in disruption of day to day operations, especially in the office. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Very much. Thank you. No problem. Next speaker, please. Gavin, your mayor.
Speaker 8: City council executive staff. My name is National Medrano.
Speaker 4: I represent the Los.
Speaker 8: Angeles, an Orange County building and Construction Trades Council, which comprises of 140,000 hardworking men and women in construction.
Speaker 4: And we're here to support the staff. Recommendation to move forward with construction appear to be the port must remain competitive. Trade moving through the port of Long Beach sustains more than 300,000 jobs in southern the southern California region, including 40,000 jobs in Long Beach.
Speaker 4: Construction of this.
Speaker 8: Facility could generate over 1100 jobs.
Speaker 4: The project would allow the port to move more cargo, more efficiently, continuing to sustain jobs and generate economic.
Speaker 8: Opportunities while reducing emissions and traffic.
Speaker 4: Cargo would be moved to and from Pier B only on trains. Each onboard trains saves up to 750 truck trips between the port and half dock rail yards. The proposed project will have a port wide project labor agreement that will support 40% local hire in the Los Angeles and Orange County's 15% disadvantaged worker go 10% of veteran
Speaker 4: worker go and 30% apprenticeship provision. This will be this will provide for many apprenticeship opportunities for communities, for the young people coming up here in the community. Thank you for your support of working men and women. And again, we urge you to support the staff recommendation.
Speaker 4: Good evening. Thank you very much. And I am right to your point and just about a minute, 15 seconds. So I appreciate that. So we have a lot we have a long agenda, sir. Obviously, if you are able to to to make the time a little shorter, that helps the process.
Speaker 4: So thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Thank you. Mayor Garcia and members of the city council. I'm Tiffany Rao, director of government public affairs for Endeavor, speaking on behalf of our terminal and pipeline operator and the Port Tesoro SoCal Pipeline Company, LLC. We support the overall goal goals of the Pier B project, but we share some of the appellants concerns about the project's construction
Speaker 1: impacts, including potential effects on air quality traffic and circulation, emergency access and business disruption. We are committed to working with the port to resolve our concerns that construction of the project could require removal and or relocation of over 200 utility pipelines, including over 75 oil pipelines.
Speaker 1: Removal of hundreds of utility lines could result in significant disruption of the port's operations. And these disruptions would also directly affect our operations, our customers, public utilities and numerous other operators at the port. The impacts will disproportionate disproportionately burden to Thora.
Speaker 1: So Cal Pipeline Company who operates 15 active lines that require relocation. We have spelled out these concerns in our March 13, 2017 letter comments and commenting on the draft e.r. And again in the January 22nd 28 letter. On the final e.r.
Speaker 1: We have identified a solution that could significantly reduce these potential impacts, minimize disruption and limit unnecessary construction costs by allowing active pipelines to be protected and abandoned in place and safely abandoned. Inactive pipelines using accepted best practices and abandonment activities are strictly regulated by the U.S., D.O.T. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and the California State Fire
Speaker 1: Marshal that prescribes certain steps for formal abandonment of pipelines, including the disconnection, purging and stealing of abandoned lines left in plant place in addition to regulatory obligations. The owner of an abandoned line continues to have potential liability for any nuisance or hazard that may be created by leaving pipe in the ground.
Speaker 1: Long Beach's Pipeline Ordinance Section 15.44.150. Provision for abandonment of a facility specifically authorizes abandonment in place when there is no detriment to the public interest. We ask and ever ask the city to consider development of a memorandum of understanding that identifies which pipelines need to be removed, if any, and which can be safely abandoned in place and
Speaker 1: establish specific timeframes for completion of all necessary relocation. Again, Endeavor supports the port's Pier B on Dock Rail Project, and we ask for your support, support and direction to staff to work with us to achieve a solution. Thank you.
Speaker 1: And I'm available to answer any questions on this matter.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Next speaker, please. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Council Members John Hanna, Governmental Affairs Director for the Southwest Regional Council of Carpenters. Happy Nowruz. Council Members Price. I want to also thank the Council, particularly the Mayor and Councilman Nine and Councilwoman Price for your efforts to keep open community hospital of Long Beach.
Speaker 4: I would say on this the Carpenters strongly support the Pier B project, but I want to remind you what your mission is here tonight. Your charge, it's to deal with the certification of the air so it's not on the substance.
Speaker 4: So much was discussed on the process and on the process. There's been no evidence tonight that the city failed to comply with the requirements under SEQUA. In fact, they gave additional time, as your deputy city attorney reported, for people to come forward.
Speaker 4: And in fact, tonight we heard an admission that there was sufficient time by one of the appellants, but not one fact was ever presented that they were unable to produce in that timely manner to justify an extension of time.
Speaker 4: So I think that the city has the staff has has put it forward. And I think particularly the last item, the deputy city attorney said that 75% of the negative impacts, some of the stuff that was highlighted in one of the appellant's comments in paper is already there in the background.
Speaker 4: We think on the on the balance, this is a great project. It's not going to mean a lot of jobs for Southwest Carpenters. It will mean some. But for the over 2000 carpenters members and family members who live in the city of Long Beach, it means that this port will continue to be competitive.
Speaker 4: You've got people in Savannah, you've got people in Canada who want to take this business. This is the engine that drives the city council members. And this project will do two things. It will increase the velocity of moving those those goods, which makes us more competitive.
Speaker 4: But second, in the keynote for this city is that it's going to do it in a green way, reduce the pollution. That's what makes Long Beach unique. With all the ports, you're the greenest port in the country. Let's keep it that way.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Mr. Hanna. Next speaker, please. Late evening, Mr. Mayor. Council members and staff. My name is Diego Gomez. I'm a resident of Long Beach. I'm also a 15 year member of the IBEW. Our body is a membership of over 1200 12,000 excuse me, members here in the greater L.A. area.
Speaker 4: We're here in support of the project for various reasons.
Speaker 10: And I will be very brief.
Speaker 4: Pier B on dock projects supports well over 1100 jobs here locally. The potential to save 750 transportation trucks between the dock and the rail station adjacent to us is.
Speaker 10: A large benefit as.
Speaker 4: Well. But the most important part is the key infrastructure. That's for improvements for the dock, which will keep it competitive. We support this primarily because of the play components that do encourage local hires not only for veterans but disadvantaged workers as well.
Speaker 4: It aids in alleviating congestion in our local highways and streets, alleviating a lot of our membership, having to drive out to larger areas of the greater Los Angeles area. We fully support this project and the ability to provide good middle class wages for our membership and others that would benefit directly from the project.
Speaker 4: In conclusion, we ask that you deny the appeal, as well as urge the full council support in bringing the project forward. Thank you. Thank you so much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Good evening, Mayor and City Council. My name is Camilla Khatami. I'm a resident of Long Beach. And here today I'm representing the Hubbard Harbor Association of Industry and Commerce. We urge your support in the 12th Street option of the proposed Pier B rail yard project, which you will be considering as part of your review of the project's
Speaker 1: final earth. This project is vital to keep the Port of Long Beach competitive and meet the environmental goals outlined in the updated Cap Clean Air Action Plan. With the development of the Pier B rail yard project. Short haul truck trips will be reduced greatly, as will the emissions associated with them.
Speaker 1: These are factors that our membership considers as necessary to remain competitive in our industry. The Port of Long Beach has a strong track record of supporting their customers and tenants. We are certain that this air has sufficiently address safety, air quality and efficient goods movement.
Speaker 1: Without the Pier B facility, the port cannot meet their near-term goal of moving 35% of containers via on dock rail or reach the eventual goal of 50%. It is the best option to accommodate future cargo growth and boost the economic activity while sustaining the 30,000 jobs in Long Beach that depend on the city's port.
Speaker 1: We strongly urge you to vote in favor of it. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Good evening, Mayor and council members. My name is Lupe Valdez. I'm with Union Pacific Railroad. I'm the director of public affairs and I'm here in support of the project. We believe any time the ports can do projects of this magnitude that make everything more efficient for us, that's also a reduction in emissions.
Speaker 1: Any time you can have operations that clearly cut down on drainage, that moves. I have the near dock facility, you pitas and that's a four mile facility. And when you have facilities on dock that don't have rail service, this would provide for some of those smaller, smaller moves to all be connected into one train.
Speaker 1: I do want to tell you that the previous speaker mentioned about how we accommodate for the engines on a train. A lot of what is happening in terms of that's called distributed power. And what happens is that actually makes the train run more efficient and use less fuel.
Speaker 1: Even though you see those locomotives, the head locomotive is the one managing that train and it can really help a lot with efficiency in terms of reduction of fuel use. And that's something that's always very important to us.
Speaker 1: And with that, I thank you very much for allowing me to speak.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 5: Hello.
Speaker 1: Good evening, mayor, vice mayor and council members. My name is Elizabeth Warren and I'm the president and CEO of Dialed In Partners. Thank you for the opportunity to speak this evening. I'm here as a community stakeholder, business partner with the port.
Speaker 1: And I want to express my support of the Pier B project.
Speaker 2: And to urge the.
Speaker 1: Council to support the staff's.
Speaker 9: Recommendation for the final.
Speaker 2: Year. The port staff has done its due diligence over the years and has.
Speaker 1: Completed the environmental process above and beyond what is required. As you know, I've been a supporter of green growth, an efficient, efficient cargo movement for many years. That is why this added infrastructure is so important in order to move that cargo by rail to.
Speaker 2: Support the on dock.
Speaker 1: Marine terminals. It's not only important to our communities to get the containers on rail, we also need to keep our port competitive. The Port of Long Beach is the busiest seaport in the United States. And however, we need.
Speaker 2: To do everything we.
Speaker 9: Can.
Speaker 1: To keep our goods moving.
Speaker 9: Industry here in Southern California, to keep the cargo in the.
Speaker 2: Hundreds of thousands of jobs supported by that cargo here and not diverted to other regions or to other countries. Modernizing the port and greening.
Speaker 1: The port.
Speaker 9: Go hand-in-hand.
Speaker 1: This project is.
Speaker 2: Another example of how the.
Speaker 1: Port of Long.
Speaker 9: Beach can modernize and go green.
Speaker 2: At the same time. It's a key.
Speaker 1: Component, and it's critical to the future development of the Port of Long Beach.
Speaker 2: So I again urge the port.
Speaker 1: Excuse.
Speaker 2: Me to urge the Council.
Speaker 9: To approve the final EMR.
Speaker 1: Thank you for the opportunity to speak this evening.
Speaker 4: Thanks so much, Nick. Speaker, please. Good evening, Dr. Mayor. Robert Garcia, Vice Mayor Richardson.
Speaker 7: My name is Jessie Equity with.
Speaker 4: POTUS. I am representing the Long Beach Chamber Government Affairs Committee with our 800 members. We really, really, really urge you to support this project for reasons you've heard and four reasons you're going to hear. Please support the Harbor Commission's decision, and we thank you for your support.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you. Everyone's been keeping it under under 10 minutes, so we're going to step. There's not any objection. We're going to go down to 2 minutes. Just set the timer there. We'll continue. Good evening, Mayor. City Council.
Speaker 4: My name is Thomas Jellinek. I represent.
Speaker 3: PMC.
Speaker 4: We represent the marine terminals and ocean carriers that are the customers of the Port of Long Beach. We're here to urge you.
Speaker 3: This evening to support.
Speaker 4: The port's decision on certifying the air. This project will do three things. One, improve the port's competitiveness.
Speaker 3: And as you've already heard, competitiveness is key.
Speaker 4: To this port and retaining the cargo that flows through these ports. Two, it will benefit the community. It will benefit the community through shifting cargo from trucks, through trains, reducing congestion, and thereby improving the environment. And third, it will create jobs and retain the jobs that this port.
Speaker 3: Creates in this.
Speaker 4: Community and throughout the region. For those three reasons, I urge you to support this project and affirm the port of Long.
Speaker 3: Beach, the port of Long Beach, its decision.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you very much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Good evening, Mr. Mayor. Council members. My name is Mining Premiere. I'm the interim executive director for Future Ports. I am. I'm here tonight on behalf of our 57 member companies, many of whom are based right here in Long Beach, to emphasize our support for the Pier B project and the staff recommendation.
Speaker 1: During the IR public comment period, we submitted comments in support of the project with requests to ensure that the project coordinate with utilities, some of whom you have heard from tonight, as well as with the Skegg rail yard for future development.
Speaker 1: And we are confident that as the project moves forward, the port will work closely with stakeholders, including our members. The Pier Beyond Dock Rail Project is vital to keep the Port of Long Beach competitive and meet environmental goals outlined in the 2017 update of the CAP.
Speaker 1: The project would provide more truck space to connect smaller train segments coming and therefore increase port efficiencies. Future port is dedicated to supporting sustainable growth at the San Pedro Bay Ports complex, and we believe this project is a strong example of a project that provides improved port operations, improved air quality and reduce congestion and will lead to
Speaker 1: more jobs for Long Beach residents. For those reasons, I urge you to vote to uphold the approval of the air by the Harbor Commission. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you so much, Nick Speaker.
Speaker 0: Good evening, Mayor Garcia. Council members, my name is Jessica Alvarenga. I'm with the Pacific Merchant Shipping Association.
Speaker 2: And I'd like to share our.
Speaker 9: Support for the Pier B project.
Speaker 2: It was initially approved by the Harbor Commission in January for its.
Speaker 9: Benefits in improving port.
Speaker 1: Competitiveness.
Speaker 2: And environment.
Speaker 9: And the environment by adding on dock rail capacity.
Speaker 0: This project will make.
Speaker 2: Port operations more efficient.
Speaker 0: While alleviating future truck.
Speaker 6: Congestion. Additionally.
Speaker 2: There will be a smaller.
Speaker 1: Number of trucks on the road.
Speaker 0: And the project. Construction will.
Speaker 6: Create much.
Speaker 0: Needed jobs in the community. This project will improve efficiency.
Speaker 2: Without increasing pollution. It will reduce.
Speaker 1: Truck.
Speaker 0: Congestion and create jobs.
Speaker 9: Please support the Pier B here. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thanks so much, nick speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Good evening, Mayor Garcia and City Councilmembers. My name is Kendall Asuncion, and I'm here on the left on behalf of the Los Angeles Area Chamber of Commerce. We are here to express our support for the air for the Port of Long Beach Pier beyond our rail facilities, as needed to move more cargo on dock, which will both
Speaker 1: improve efficiency and reduce pollution. The improvements will increase track space to connect smaller train segments and connect the cargo terminals, enhancing the system and increasing rail use, which will eliminate truck trips and congestion at the ports and throughout the region.
Speaker 1: Pier B on dock rail facilities will leverage the port's existing investments in rail, which will continue to have positive ripple effects to the community, including improved air quality, reduce poverty, reduce pollution, decrease congestion and construction, which will generate new jobs in the area.
Speaker 1: It will also play a key role in meeting the near-term goal of moving 35% of containers via undock rail. Given these useful benefits, the Chamber urges the Council to uphold approval of the EIA for the by the Harbor Commission.
Speaker 1: Thank you and have a good evening.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Good evening, Mayor Garcia and City Council members. My name is Paige Polonius and I am here to speak on behalf of Assemblymember O'Donnell's strong support for the Pier B Project. Pier B expansion will reduce harmful emissions, reduce truck traffic congestion and increase port efficiency.
Speaker 1: To put it simply, this project will help the port become greener.
Speaker 2: Leaner and more.
Speaker 1: Competitive. For these reasons, Assemblymember O'Donnell is in strong.
Speaker 2: Support of.
Speaker 1: This project. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Nick. Speaker, please. My name is Paul Collins. I'm an architect in Long Beach in the West Side. I'm here representing the West Side Project Area Committee. We are firmly right now behind the port as far as we want the port to expand and we always try to be on the port side.
Speaker 4: But the pollution aspect of this has not been looked at carefully at all when I read through the air. And all the items that were checked that there was no significant impact. They weren't certainly talking about the industrial area.
Speaker 4: The only industrial area where heavy industrial can occur in Long Beach is in the West Side, and the pollution for us is going to be much greater than it is now. Already within a mile of the port, we have cancer rates and asthma rates up to 800% higher than any other part of Long Beach.
Speaker 4: And the trains are going to indefinitely produce more pollution for us. The trains that leave the port, they go through and they and they go long term. Those were not part of the port's environmental impact study. Those trains are a different type of train, and the port cannot control the people that own those trains and tracks on
Speaker 4: what kind of engines they burn. We've had we've taken pictures of these trains leaving long term and they have black soot coming out of them and they produce as much, if not more pollution than the trucks would. The businesses in the West Side have had good access for the city and for the to the city and to
Speaker 4: the port, and that's going to all be cut off. So all the businesses that require access to the port to get their items that they build in West Long Beach out of the port are not going to have the same access that they have now.
Speaker 4: And some of them have heavy loads and large loads. That hasn't been considered at all because they go up Santa Fe right now and Santa Fe is going to be closed off. And that does not work for several of the larger companies that have many jobs and have many people working for them that won't be able to
Speaker 4: get their items to the port to get them out of the country. Thank you very much, sir. Good evening, Mayor Garcia Garcia and council members. I'm keep this short. I'm a professional carpenter and I lived in the West Long Beach area all my life.
Speaker 4: I live two miles away from the project and I am for Pier B project. So I agree. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next speaker.
Speaker 5: Even Mayor Garcia and council members. And thank you for this time and opportunity. My name is Ted Humanas and I'm a representative with the Southwest Regional Council of the Carpenters. And what I have with me today is carpenters.
Speaker 5: Stand up, building trades, stand up. These are people here a few and quite a few are outside. And we're here to let you know that we support the project. I'm sure you heard all the details. I'm not going to be redundant.
Speaker 5: This is about hard work that's going to provide a lot of construction jobs. We're about a middle class living, health care pension with dignity. And whenever that opportunity is available, like you're offering here, we're strong supporters that we represent over 50,000 carpenters just in the southwest, 30,000 carpenters plus here in Southern California, along with the building trades
Speaker 5: . We urge you to support this project. Thank you very much.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Thank you. Next speaker.
Speaker 0: Good evening, Mayor and city council members.
Speaker 6: I'm an employee of a heavy industrial.
Speaker 0: Manufacturing company.
Speaker 6: In West Side, Long Beach. My understanding is the whole thing of tonight is just.
Speaker 2: Questioning her.
Speaker 6: About the environmental impacts are not good publicity. I was just wondering about the vibration impact because that has.
Speaker 0: A direct impact on precision manufacturing.
Speaker 6: And the train just in and of itself has an impact. And I don't think that that came up. Definitely things you can do about it. Right. But I don't think that that was brought up in the environmental report.
Speaker 6: So maybe that's something to look at. As well as the inevitable rerouting of the heavyweight corridor and the associated environmental impact as a current project directly impacts the heavyweight corridor. So I guess the question would be we need to kind of assess how it was evaluated and take a closer look because there's there are things we can
Speaker 6: do about the impact. Just we need to know what the impact is accurately. Right. But fair consideration, I guess.
Speaker 4: Thanks so much. Next speaker, please. Thank you, Mayor. City Council. My name is Lee Wilson. I own a piece of property at 1520 West 11th Street that is right underneath the railyard. The building will disappear. We've owned that property since 1965.
Speaker 4: I have a tenant down there today doing some very crucial work not only for this port, but for the country on some of the specialized handling that he does. He has no idea the future of his business. But I'm not here to speak against the air.
Speaker 4: I'm going to address the fact that and request that council postpone their approval of this tonight until they can convene a meeting and another hearing to where probably the dozen or two dozen people that were outside that have not been able to get in have left out of frustration.
Speaker 4: Because when I got here about 20 minutes before, there was a 100 yard line, long line, and it just grew and grew. If I had not been forceful at the door with the police department, I would not be in here myself.
Speaker 4: I want to thank I did talk to Mario and I talked to Rick camera. And I know Rick went out and got the fire marshal to go out, try to get people in. My buddy Larry here and other impacted business is here.
Speaker 4: But I don't think that the pop, you know, the people being impacted that have skin in the game had adequate time to address the council and raise their issues. I, I can thank the port and I am totally positive that they follow every rule in Sitka.
Speaker 4: I'm very familiar with the square and the processing, but I think the council as a whole has left the stakeholders down, not allowing enough of them into the meeting to hear the appellants. I only got to hear Superior did not hear the Phillips Company, which I missed.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much, sir. Next speaker, Mr. Mayor Garcia and council members. My name is Lawrence Mihara and I'm with 435 Seafood, Long Beach Sportfishing, Queen's Wharf Restaurant in the Port of Long Beach. And I want to talk about my opposition to the approval of the air in the air, or the response states that our business is
Speaker 4: not significantly impacted yet. In the first paragraph in black and white in the report, the project eliminates 53 parking spots. We already are unable to accommodate our customers with sufficient parking spaces, particularly on the weekends. There are no overflow lots and no alternatives for parking.
Speaker 4: To state that reducing our parking lot by approximately 25% is not significant is to ignore the facts and nature of our business located there, which are popular with the community. This is one of the only places in the port where local community has access to the port.
Speaker 4: The response states that no building will be affected. But just I just learned in a meeting with the port design team that Pico Boulevard, essentially a multiple lane highway, will be 12 feet from my from the corner of my building to state that no building will be affected also ignores reality.
Speaker 4: And I also want to talk about the air quality will be adversely affected for our employees and customers. The report admits that the air quality is significantly worse as a result of the nitrous oxide levels that are beyond the federal threshold levels.
Speaker 4: And yet it says this is not a significant fact. It defies common sense to say that doubling the number of rail tracks and trains and having tracks and road 50 feet closer to our business will not significantly increase pollution and affect our business.
Speaker 4: Our restaurant is mostly outdoors with people sitting outside. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. Next speaker, please. And it looks like we're nearing the end of the speaker's list. So we will be our last speakers that are here in line for this hearing.
Speaker 8: Good evening, Mayor Garcia. Members of the City Council. My name is when I was meeting with the Regional Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. We're here to support business development. We support the Hispanic business community as well. We're here in favor of the Pier B on dock project.
Speaker 8: We're here because we support the jobs that it will generate. Trade through the port sustains about 300,000 jobs in the Southern California region. 30,000 of those jobs are in Long Beach. This project alone will be over about 1100 jobs, that it'll create it a lot more at the port to move more cargo more efficiently, generate more opportunities
Speaker 8: while maintaining low emissions, reducing traffic as well. The chamber supports the project. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 1: Port. Port. I remember I adjudicate on employment law and some of the people, the attorneys who were called that office won it and adjudication determination in their favor simply because they were attorneys. Never mind that they were defrauding the people who were fired.
Speaker 1: When I heard this, and I'm sitting there with no real particular interest, and then my mind just skirted back to the airport argument. How beneficial it would have been financially, how the international community would have had access to Long Beach wanting to bring the Olympics here.
Speaker 1: And you got the aquarium that put this of the Pacific that you just gave $53 million to do. And the jobs that would have been created long term had you brought in International Airport to Long Beach. Why didn't you do it?
Speaker 1: You didn't do it because your rich clients didn't want it. That's why you didn't do it. They wouldn't have voted for you again, some of you, if you had brought that international airport that, you know, would have been of large global impact to Long Beach.
Speaker 1: It would have brought put Long Beach on the map like none other. But you voted no. Why did you do it? And now you're willing to say yes to this? Hypocrisy is terrible. The souls of men are being bought and sold here because the poorest of the community of Long Beach live there.
Speaker 1: And you don't care about it. Even though you're going to have jobs, you're going to have an international influence. But you said no to an international airport. You have a tunnel. The airport. You don't have a big boy airport.
Speaker 1: And why not?
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you very much.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Thank you. And we love our we love our airport as it is. Thank you very much. Next speaker, please.
Speaker 7: Grady Mayor, the city council. My name is Tony Rivera. Most of you know me already. I was former chair of RTA on the West Side. And I will I will tell you to everyone, this project, I am not opposed to this project, but it's been done incorrectly.
Speaker 7: When we were talking about a long time ago, we were talking about Unite Long Beach, not divide it. Now Long Beach. The problem is decided to divide us. Put a rail wall in there so we don't go to the port.
Speaker 7: Number one problem. Number two, problem. They just said that we're going to have a clean, local motors for the neighborhood. I got burials right now with the locomotives coming in and contaminate all the west and downtown Long Beach with all this smog.
Speaker 7: There's not been taking care of it. So that's the second thing is bad. The third one is that the ships are coming in 40 miles. They come in slow, but everybody's talking about trucks and trucks leaving the trucks alone.
Speaker 7: They already clean, concentrate on the ships 40 miles, even 100 miles up in the air. All the contamination comes to downtown and you can go see my yard on Sundays. How black it is for that smoke when the ships and the rail.
Speaker 7: Now, I'm going to tell you this. We need to work together and we I will ask you to send it back to the public, have some hearings. The port knows they need to go back and do the engineering at work.
Speaker 7: We cannot screw American people over international trade. You guys are elected by American people, not by the we're all agents and everybody. And and I would make a little point in here. And, you know, we always get unions from other cities to come in and support these projects.
Speaker 7: We live in lobbies. I spent 18 hours for the last 40 years alone.
Speaker 4: Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Well, that concludes the public comment part of the hearing. We're going to go and close public comment and come back to the council for deliberation. So let me begin with Councilwoman Gonzales.
Speaker 9: Yes. Thank you, everybody, for being here tonight. I know that you have been through many different meetings, and so I will speak very shortly as you have. And we appreciate your time here. I want to thank everyone, particularly Darryl Phillips and Stan, to Nokia, as well as the West Side industrial area businesses.
Speaker 9: They have I've met with them about five or six different times over the last year, both my staff and myself. I've also worked very closely with our first district former first District Council member and Port Commissioner, Bonnie Lowenthal.
Speaker 9: We actually deci each other yesterday and chatted about this as well. And I want to thank our harbor commissioners as well as our harbor staff Rick, Samantha, Nina, Heather, Matthew, as well as our president, Mario Cordero. I've connected with everybody to make sure that we're getting this just right.
Speaker 9: And as you've heard here, you know, Phillip steal superior signs. I think the average time that the West Siders have been in business and invested out there has been probably it's the average is probably 60 years or so.
Speaker 9: Those businesses are historic. So of course, we we care very much about them. And although we know that this is going to be a good project, we have to be very mindful of this business community. And just to be clear as well, the city council is only making a determination on the appeal of the art in the
Speaker 9: segment analysis. So I have a few questions for staff. And really they're just two main concerns. And I know that they don't specifically speak to the air, but I feel like they have to be addressed. And I thank you for addressing this.
Speaker 9: So first, as it relates to access, as the 12 ST option was formally adopted by the Harbor Harbor Commission, it will remove access to Ninth Street. Do we have any other access options that we believe will be more beneficial for our Westside community other than Ninth Street?
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilwoman. ACCESS Well, this shoemaker Brant ramps when they are removed can still occur through Anaheim Street and down one of the Archer arterials or via the 710.
Speaker 9: Okay. And I just want to make crystal clear as well, as you mentioned in the as far as the public safety access, there will be no issues with public safety going to and from the west side to attend to any emergency.
Speaker 2: That's correct. We have worked extensively with the fire department and other emergency services. They've done their own analysis about access and response times. There are no significant impacts or concerns with emergency service access. In addition, we've evaluated the routes to get to the nearest hospitals, and those routes will not be impacted as a result of this project
Speaker 9: . Great. Thank you. And then the second question is related to our businesses. Of course, as we've said here, and I want to emphasize how how many businesses do we have that not just the parcels, but businesses that will be directly impacted, either directly or indirectly, like Phillip Steel and Superior Science?
Speaker 9: Do you know how many actual businesses?
Speaker 4: So at this point, we can give estimates until the air was fully certified. We were limited in the.
Speaker 7: Amount of.
Speaker 4: Work we could do on the business relocation and survey side. But we believe that there's approximately 40 businesses that would be impacted in the project footprint.
Speaker 9: Okay, so 40 businesses. And after this decision tonight, should we move forward with staff's recommendations? How will we identify a strong business retention and relocation plan for these businesses both directly and indirectly impacted, whether it's receiving mitigations for noise and air just in general, and also finding alternative options in our city for these particular businesses.
Speaker 2: The port staff has already been establishing a project team to evaluate all of these issues, to work with the affected businesses, to work with the community. We've already been addressing questions and responding to the comments and questions that have come up through the process.
Speaker 2: We've also been reaching out to the other city departments like Development Services and Economic Development, and we will be continuing those discussions and looking for ways that we can relocate all of these businesses within the city of Long Beach and close to their to their current location.
Speaker 2: And so we commit to continuing to work through that process and to make sure that we're listening to all the concerns and addressing those concerns as we go through the design and construction process.
Speaker 9: Okay. And that was my next question. Have we worked with the Economic Development Department? You said we have. That's fantastic. So these businesses are fully aware of their options. And as the project moves forward, what is the timeline for the project?
Speaker 9: I understand this could be, of course, done in phases. Do we have something coming up, a milestone that we can hit and we can report out to, say, the Harbor and Tidelands Committee?
Speaker 2: We would be happy to report out to the Harbors and Tidelands Committee. I think in general, the the initial priorities are for us to start working on developing further development of the design. We'll need to go through a process for the evaluation of the properties that will be affected for the acquisition of those properties.
Speaker 2: And that will be a long term process. We'll also be moving forward with the ninth Street closure, which will be a early priority for the project as well. That's likely to take place in the next year or two to the acquisition process will likely be over about a five year period.
Speaker 2: And we'll also be doing some of the initial efforts for the utility relocation, which will also need to take place in the early phase of the project. So a lot of that work will take place over the next approximately five years.
Speaker 9: Okay. Thank you. So as we hit those milestones prior to ninth Street closing, which seems to be a fast tracked, you know, priority, I would just ask that we report this information out to the Harbor and Highlands Committee.
Speaker 9: I'm the chair. Councilmember Price and Pearce are both on the committee with me to ensure that our businesses are fully aware of what comes next and our residents are fully aware of what will happen next. And you need to just specifically notice them as well.
Speaker 9: So we're working either with my office or I know you're very you're well acquainted with our West Side industrial area, but for any other residents that might want to have this information and and be privy to it so they understand what exactly is going on with the project, I would just ask that we we do that.
Speaker 9: And then the last question I have here, will will there be mitigation and will it provide funding for the West Side livability plan for both residents and business stakeholders? This was the Westside Livability Plan that was a multi year process for communities and business stakeholders.
Speaker 9: They came together, they talked about many projects for lessening mitigations due to air pollution, noise, etc. So this can this be folded into to this project?
Speaker 2: So this project does have a contribution to our community grants program between the air quality and the greenhouse gas impacts associated with this project, there will be an approximately $1.5 million contribution to that fund. As a reminder, several years ago, our board established an overall program that will be providing over $46 million in funding through the Community
Speaker 2: Mitigation Program. So this this project will make a contribution to that program. Part of the reason why the Port of Long Beach worked with the city and development of the Livability Westside Livability Plan, initially we provided some. Funding to help support the development of that plan.
Speaker 2: Was that so that we could get a better understanding of the priorities for the projects that could be done to help address those concerns in in West Long Beach and to help us line up how we could prioritize some of the funding through our program.
Speaker 2: And so we look forward to continuing to coordinate with the city on those priorities and how those funds can help to address some of those projects. We will continue to work with the community as well each year as we go through developing the funding priorities for that program going forward.
Speaker 2: And so we look forward to continuing to support that project. And as a reminder, this project will make a contribution to help further that program.
Speaker 9: Okay. Thank you. I just want to make sure that was addressed. And I will just say let's just continue to keep connected to make sure that that was saved. Livability Plan sees fruition for the community. I know it's a big deal for them as well as businesses, residents, everyone.
Speaker 9: And so do we know what the community process will be in terms of that? Is that coming back at a certain time?
Speaker 1: It's it should pass, right?
Speaker 2: So each year it's an ongoing program. Now, that was part of the board's approval a few years ago is so that we could establish an ongoing program. So each year we go through a process of having community meetings where we seek input from the community.
Speaker 2: We also meet regularly with city department staff to find out about priority projects. So we go through a process approximately around the fall each year to gather input on funding priorities for the upcoming year. We make a presentation to our Harbor Commission in the early part of the year.
Speaker 2: We made a presentation in February of this year identifying the priorities that were shared by the community and the city staff. During those meetings, we made a recommendation for this upcoming funding cycle to focus on stormwater projects, and so we'll be releasing a request for proposals later this spring for approximately $3 million to fund projects that can
Speaker 2: improve stormwater infrastructure in the in the city in that area. But each year we go through a process last year that the funding was provided for air filters and community health programs. But each year we go through a process to seek input from the community about those priorities, and then we release a new funding cycle each year
Speaker 2: . So that will be an ongoing process.
Speaker 9: Okay, great. Thank you. And I will just ask, with that said, to make sure that we are connected. The council offices are connected. I know some of the meetings had been occurring on a Tuesday, which was a council Tuesday, and I would just really urge that we all just stay connected to make sure that the community is
Speaker 9: fully aware of what is happening at every step of the way. And I know that will do that. But we appreciate you answering those questions. So thank you very much. I will move that we review and I'm sorry we should receive and file all documentation of the record concerning the two concerning the two appeals and adopt the
Speaker 9: city staff recommendation and uphold the Board of Harbor Commissioners certification of the final air. I just want to say again, thank you very much to the Westside Industrial Area for coming out. I know this is very difficult. It's very difficult to deal with this.
Speaker 9: I get that. But I urge you to just stay involved with our office. We've been connected with you. We will remain connected with you. We will make sure that you do not lose sight of what this project will mean and entail.
Speaker 9: And we will ensure that everyone is privy to the information, both residents and businesses. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. So just to be clear, also, that's a motion on the floor then to approve the staff recommendation on the on the air and deny the appeal. And with that, the second on the motion, Councilmember Janine Pearce.
Speaker 2: Plus everybody in the room that's been coughing and sneezing. I want to thank first of all, I want to thank the appellants for being involved in this process, for advocating on your business's behalf, on your neighborhood's behalf. I know that a decision like this is scary and emotional because it is your livelihood that you have been building
Speaker 2: on and working on for a long time. And so I just want to thank you guys. I want to thank all the staff at the port, our commissioners, the staff at the city.
Speaker 9: It speaks volumes to me.
Speaker 2: That we had as many people here and support and a small handful of those that that spoke with some concern, somebody who's watched issues of the port for the last decade. I know that this always is a rare occasion to have so many people in support of.
Speaker 2: And I did reach out to my environmental.
Speaker 1: Activist.
Speaker 2: Organizations and nonprofits and tried to get their take on this policy on this earth as well. And so I'm happy to be able to support my council colleagues.
Speaker 9: Decision to receive.
Speaker 2: And file I did have. A couple of questions that I wanted to ask staff and I did want to also highlight. I think somebody started as a speaker here, but one train takes 750 trucks off the road. One train takes 750 trucks off the road.
Speaker 2: And to me, as somebody who takes that freeway almost every day and knows what the fight has been to try to clean up our air, really having a conversation around when the impacts are. And so my my first question is really when we talk about the air quality issues, I believe it was stated that a lot of
Speaker 2: those come from building out PRB and not so much that it's extremely long term. There are long term effects, but how much of of the the air pollution is caused from just.
Speaker 9: Building the projects?
Speaker 2: The air analyzed both impacts from the construction of the project over the seven year period through the three phases, in addition to the operational impacts associated with the the trains that will be operating in the facility for the for Philip Steel specifically and their response to comment that they had when we looked at the impacts at the
Speaker 2: nearest receptor to their location, the impacts were the significant impacts were limited to the construction phase of the project. But there were areas around the project that did experience both construction phase impacts and operational phase impacts for nitrogen oxide specifically.
Speaker 2: Okay. And then this is just an idea I had off the top of my head, so forgive me, but I know that there were the bonnets that were created for ships. Is there anything like that in the works for trains.
Speaker 1: To help reduce some of the pollution that comes from them?
Speaker 2: So there is a project that the the two ports established a technology advancement program many years ago. Over a decade ago. One of the recently funded projects that we're working on is with a technology developer called Vir Rail, and they have developed a near zero emission locomotive.
Speaker 2: So these are cleaner than the cleanest locomotive standards that are out there. These these have extremely low nitrogen oxide emissions. And so we've provided funding for the development of that switcher locomotive. But then recently through a grant from the California Air Resources Board, we're going to be able to replace the onboard generator in that locomotive with batteries
Speaker 2: so that the the locomotive can operate using zero emission track miles. So that's a project that we're developing right now, working with our operator, Pacific Harbor Line, who's been a great partner with us on demonstrating different technologies over the years.
Speaker 2: So we're hopeful that that technology will be effective and then we can look at future opportunities to get more of them integrated into the operations. Currently, Pacific Harbor Line is the cleanest switcher operate switcher locomotive operator in the country.
Speaker 2: They've done a lot of work over the years to upgrade their locomotives and they're currently testing out a Tier four locomotive. Great. So when we we talk about the air, it does not include that plan, right? It's based on what we have in place today.
Speaker 2: That is correct. We used a conservative analysis based off of what we have today, but we're hopeful that we can reduce emissions even further in the future. That's great. I think that speaks volumes again. And this is a question around the workforce piece.
Speaker 2: We had some conversation around local residents. This project falls in line with the project labor agreement that also has a local higher percentage. Is that correct? This project is included in the project labor agreement. Great. Thank you so much.
Speaker 2: I know again, operations at our ports having multiple layers and tiers of where we're doing that work is really a big challenge to please everybody. And I think that you guys have done a fantastic job. So thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Next speaker is Vice Mayor Richardson.
Speaker 3: Thanks. I know Councilmember Arango represents West Side. If he wants to go ahead of me, I don't mind.
Speaker 4: Councilor Murray. Ringo.
Speaker 7: Thank thank you, Vice Mayor Richardson, for the permit. I want to thank my councilmembers. GONZALEZ It appears they touched a lot on the issues that I had obviously been the representative of the West Side. You know, we're talking about the West, the Westside Livability Study.
Speaker 7: We're talking about the trains. We're talking about taking off cargo on dark rail and away from freeways that would take 750 trucks out of the freeways. So based on the fact that there's a long term benefit to what's taking place here, I think there's a there's a support here for that when it comes to what the effects
Speaker 7: of the project would have in the short term, I think are outweighed by the benefits in the long term, when we're looking at taking container traffic out of the freeway out of the 710 and the issues that we deal with it with it there also the fact that in addition to having more on dock rail facilities, this
Speaker 7: was an issue that has been taking place for many years. And in fact, when I joined the city council four years ago, that was a big issue of debate in terms of whether the candidates at that time were in favor of undock.
Speaker 7: Rail And of course, I was, and here we are. Here's the opportunity now to move this proposal forward. It's a part of a process. Obviously, it starts with CEQA and then the engineering work takes place to make it happen.
Speaker 7: So I'm very pleased with staff and their support and their work in getting this done. I think that they've done it with the sensitivity to the neighborhood's impact in terms of the impact to the West Palm Beach community.
Speaker 7: And I, I think that it's a job well done. And I again, want to thank my councilmembers for their for their support of this.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Councilwoman Price.
Speaker 6: Thank you very much. So I support this project. And I want to thank both the appellants and city staff who provided the presentation this evening. As the chair of the Alameda Corridor Transportation Authority. I'm a big supporter of anything that we can do to stay ahead of the changing industry that we have in terms of goods, movement
Speaker 6: and on dock rail provides us an opportunity to do that. It allows us to stay competitive and really look to the future in terms of the way we're moving goods both locally, regionally and throughout the nation. And so I support everything that's being done in regards to this project.
Speaker 6: I think it's going to be a great model and it's going to allow Long Beach to, in practice, do what it always preaches, which is to be a zero emissions port move towards a zero emissions port. I'm grateful that it includes the play and I'm also thankful for the comments of my colleagues to try to mitigate the
Speaker 6: issues for the immediate neighbors. I think that obviously is an ongoing concern and something that should be addressed along the way. So I think everyone for being here tonight and I wholeheartedly support this this project.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Base me, Richardson.
Speaker 3: Thank you. I want to just give some kudos to the work that the port did. It's not often and I think Councilmember Gonzalez or Jeanine. Councilman Pearce mentioned it's not often that you see no environmental group opposing infrastructure investment at the port and you see a lot of positive comments here.
Speaker 3: So, so good. Good work there and sort of doing the outreach. And it appears that you've you've done a lot of work to be sensitive to those adjacent businesses and neighborhoods. On dog rail is smart for a lot of reasons.
Speaker 3: It's the standard we encourage it across the country gets, you know, trucks off the trucks off the street. It cleans up your your air and it creates a more efficient system. And then infrastructure investment in general supports job creation.
Speaker 3: And so obviously support infrastructure investment. Three things I want to note. So I recognize that conversation on the West Side about the Shoemaker Bridge up in North Long Beach. We have an area of town that's sort of cut off by the 17th is kind of the Coolidge Triangle Longwood area.
Speaker 3: And as infrastructure is modernized, we try to find ways to stitch communities back together. So I just want to say, if there are, you know, just ask if there are any conversations about mobility plans or seventh and or anything else to make sure that we're thinking about stitching communities back together.
Speaker 1: Yes.
Speaker 2: The port staff, our transportation planning and engineering staff have been coordinating with City Public Works as well as Metro and Caltrans on their work on the I 710 project and the early action projects that will affect the Shoemaker Bridge.
Speaker 2: So we'll be. Making sure to continue those discussions, continue that coordination, and making sure that we're developing circulation and traffic management plans that accommodate access through that area.
Speaker 3: Okay. And secondly, I want to recognize and thank you for the conversation about engaging economic development and development services, about thinking about ways to retain businesses here. I just want to just sort of just put it out there that if ever there is some displacement of a business, we should think about, you know, opportunities to clean up
Speaker 3: other industrial spaces and create economic activity there. For example, the gentleman who spoke about his sign saying business, I would love to have this same business in North Palm Beach if if the opportunity was was there. So there are other other industrial spaces that could use more economic activity to sort of raise the standard in some of
Speaker 3: those areas. So I just wanted to sort of put that on the table. And then the last thing I would say, I would encourage you or rather our frame it as a question, is there an opportunity to continue to to to work to find a solution with the utilities?
Speaker 3: The conversations brought up about the utilities and the pipelines. Is there an opportunity to continue working to find a resolution there?
Speaker 2: Yes. And we have had some initial discussions with all of the affected parties for the utility relocation work that will be necessary for this project. Once we move through the air certification process and can start the design phase, that's where we'll move forward with those discussions in earnest and make sure that we're working with all the affected
Speaker 2: stakeholders to make sure that we're accommodating those needs as we develop the final design.
Speaker 3: Fantastic. Well, you have a good project here and I'm happy to support it. Thank you.
Speaker 4: Thank you. There's a motion and a second, of course, that's been made. I just got a couple of brief comments. We all know, of course, that the actual vote tonight is a narrow one for the council from from the scope of the actual vote itself.
Speaker 4: But I do want to make just a couple of comments just for the public at large, I think are important. And the first is, I know there was some concern about pollution or impacts of the project. I just think it's important to note that long term, the actual benefit of on dock rail and the actual benefit of
Speaker 4: implementing the full cleaner action plan will dramatically reduce pollution in and around the ports and up, up and down the 710 corridor. And so from an infrastructure creation perspective, this project at Pier B and and the expansion of our rail capacity is critical to the to the clean air future that we all want to have in this
Speaker 4: community. So I do want to commend the Board of Harbor Commissioners for, I know the incredible amount of work that went into getting us to this point. Pier B and the conversations around Pier B have been going on for many years, and there were many decisions that led up to getting to this process.
Speaker 4: And it's critical that we expand rail. The only way that we ensure that Long Beach as a port remain competitive across the world is to expand rail. It is a critical piece of the future. And there were some comments about, you know, being global or being local.
Speaker 4: And I just want to be clear that the port provides 30,000 local jobs to people in and around the port area. And so we are talking about local issues. And I want to think there are many workers that are here, both carpenters and electricians and others that are local, live in Long Beach and that live in the
Speaker 4: area. And so this idea that somehow they're not local, I take offense to I also add that it's as important that we are working with our businesses. And I do. I well, I want to thank Councilman Gonzalez for I know having met multiple times with with these businesses.
Speaker 4: But I also I'm confident I look to our harbor commissioners. I know that Vice President Askew and Commissioner Lowenthal are both here. And I ask you, as I know on behalf of the council, I know that you will ensure that our our port team continue to work with the businesses.
Speaker 4: I know, Commissioner Lowenthal, how much you have worked with these businesses in the past and when you were here. And so just to those that came forward, I think we hear you and you have our commitment that we're going to do everything we can to mitigate these impacts to to meet with you.
Speaker 4: And I know our port team are going to do just that. And so, again, I want to thank Tom Lee and the entire Mr. Cameron, the entire environmental team. Mr. Cordero, your your senior staff getting here has been a long and long process, but an important one to make this to make the air cleaner and to move
Speaker 4: to a zero emissions port. And so with that, we do have a motion and a second on the floor. Please cast your votes.
Speaker 0: Motion carries.
Speaker 4: Great. Thank you very much. And thank you all for coming out. We appreciate that. Okay. We are we are going to take as a reminder, we have two hearings left. We're going to take those two hearings next. We are going to just do take a one minute pause so we can clear folks out our fires, asks that
Speaker 4: we get some folks out first before we move on to the next hearing. And we will be doing hearing item number one next. Oh, everyone I knew I. If you were here for the first hearing, please exit and take conversations outside.
Speaker 4: Please take conversations outside. Okay. If you want to have a conversation, please, please take it outside. Where, as a reminder, we just finished our first hearing. We have two hearings left, and then we will go to the regular agenda of the city council.
Speaker 4: So we'll have two hearings left. Yes. Okay. We're moving on. I need everyone to take a seat or please. Exit. Exit the room, please. Okay. I need everyone to exit the room if you're having a conversation or we will move on.
Speaker 4: So we have the next the next two items are two hearings. So, Madam Clerk, hearing item number one.