Meeting: DenverCityCouncil_02272017
Date: 2017-02-27

---

Speaker 0: Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Lopez. And because we have a point of order here, we probably need to put one, 163 and 156 on the floor and vote them in a block. So is that correct? Okay. President Pro tem, please.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I move that resolution 163 be adopted and council Bill 156 be ordered published in a block.
Speaker 0: All right. Now, if there's still folks who want to speak, you can chime in all our time in right now because this is this happens to be in the fine District nine. And I happen to be one of the individuals working with Downtown Partnership and other leaders in the city to activate our mall.
Speaker 0: And I really respect my colleague, Councilwoman Kenney, each for her comments and Councilman Lopez for his well-stated comments. I just want to say that what is a business incentive fund for if we're not incentivizing businesses that will never locate in the downtown core to do right like this is this is the exact reason we want to do
Speaker 0: something like this. Target is a suburban model development business. They would never come down to to the urban core and make a development work without some complex financing. And so council mechanics is correct in that this is with the developer.
Speaker 0: We get to do an adaptive reuse project here, which is is very well supported by the community. And I encourage individuals to walk down 16th in California and see and walk past this area that is not activated. And we have a pretty good track record in Office of Economic Development in the city that when we invest public
Speaker 0: dollars, our return on private dollars is substantial. But it's not just about the dollars. It's about the connectivity. It's about the activation. And I believe that this is going to be an incredible opportunity. And I encourage our my colleagues to support this.
Speaker 0: And I encourage members of the public to go down and see where this location is. And to Councilman Lopez's point, I represent half of my district is a food desert. And I hope that this is a precedent that we are bringing.
Speaker 0: We're using public dollars to bring healthy food to communities in the future. So I just want to be on record saying that it's been moved and seconded both 156 and 163. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 3: And.
Speaker 5: Each name.
Speaker 3: Lopez.
Speaker 6: I knew.
Speaker 3: Black eye. Clark. Hi. Flynn.
Speaker 1: Hi.
Speaker 3: Gilmore. Cashman. Hi. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: I please close the voting and not the results.
Speaker 3: Sorry. I think there's one person missing.
Speaker 0: We've lost some council members up here.
Speaker 3: Here we go. Seven eyes, one knee.
Speaker 0: Okay. Seven eyes one. Nay, are you? Did you get my vote in there? It should be eight eyes. One nay.
Speaker 5: Okay, let's see.
Speaker 3: No, I did not. So, eight eyes, one nail. It will be corrected.
Speaker 0: Okay. Eight eyes, one nay. 153 has been ordered, published and one 5163 has been adopted. Is that correct? Yes, Madam Secretary. 156 sorry. Yup. Has been ordered published. 163 has been adopted. All right, Madam Secretary, we put the next item on the screen Council Bill 161.
Speaker 5: It's hard to find.

Speaker 0: Oh, yeah? Mm hmm. Madam Secretary. Let's do 153.
Speaker 3: Okay.
Speaker 0: This is the. This is the vacation in the alley. Okay. I've called out council about 153 regarding the eviction of Ali on 15th Street. Wynkoop Plaza in Church Creek for a vote. Councilman, Clerk, will you please put Council Bill 153 on the floor for publication?
Speaker 6: Yes, Mr. President. I move the council bill 153 be ordered published.
Speaker 0: All right, it has been moved. We need a second. All right. Thank you. It's been moved and seconded. So this is a vacation. It's Kalispell 153. It's Vacation Alley, a portion of behind 15th Street and one Cooper Massey Street and Cherry Creek.
Speaker 0: And there has been a a ton of consternation around this by my neighbors. And I wanted to give the folks who are proposing this alley vacation the opportunity to speak to this and answer some pretty direct questions that we've been receiving from the public.
Speaker 0: So. Peter Aw, come on up here, introduce yourselves and then please, let's bring this up so everybody can see it as well. Members of council. You want to go to your audiovisual? Oh, great. We have a. Rather large screen in the back.
Speaker 0: That's going to do it for us. Thank you.
Speaker 7: Good evening. Council members Brian Connolly with the law firm of Otten Johnson Robinson and Regan Eddy. And we represent Unico Properties, which is the owner of the property. The properties on either side of the alley. I'm actually using the cursor, which you can't see very well.
Speaker 7: We can show you all you can. Okay, good. To show you the properties. So it's the two surface parking lots on either side of the alley.
Speaker 0: And can you zoom in just a little bit to that picture?
Speaker 1: Sure.
Speaker 0: One more time. Great. Okay. Excellent. So orient us, explain what the project is seeking. And then I have a couple of questions for you.
Speaker 7: Sure, Mr. President. So Unico Properties is seeking to construct a new building which will go across these two service parking lots. The building is anticipated, just for your information, is anticipated to be a six storey building with a residential penthouse on top of it.
Speaker 7: And it will also have a feature, a pedestrian promenade along the creek, sort of in the area that I'm moving the cursor which will run between Swasey and Wynkoop streets and will extend the current pedestrian promenade that exists sort of above the retaining wall on properties all the way down to Del Gainey.
Speaker 7: Okay. We're not going to be doing anything to to change the ramp that goes down to the creek. This is about a 15 to 20 foot drop off this retaining wall. And so what we're seeking from you this evening is a vacation of this alley, or at least this portion of the alley terminate right here.
Speaker 7: So it would allow the building to go all the way across between wasI and Wynkoop.
Speaker 0: What how many feet is the portion of the alley you're requesting to vacate?
Speaker 7: It's about 1500 square feet.
Speaker 0: 1500 square feet, yes. Okay. A couple of questions. So there's a lot of concerns as you go into that alley right there. That alley folks can access the alley all the way to the river. And folks are saying that you guys are shutting off that alley is going to become unsafe.
Speaker 0: So is that private property right now currently where the parking lot is?
Speaker 7: It is.
Speaker 0: So is the alley shut off anyway? Are people just accessing it?
Speaker 7: It's a good question. The alley is shut off anyway. So right now the alley is has a dead end condition. The alley goes all the way down to the retaining wall and dead ends right here.
Speaker 0: Okay.
Speaker 7: Right now, there are chains on either side of the alley. So you could not, for example, drive a car out the southwestern end of the alley because either side of it is private property.
Speaker 0: And we also are hearing that you all are proposing an L-shape to to allow private access out the alley on to I believe that is was he is that true as well?
Speaker 7: That's not correct. So we've not we have not proposed an L-shaped. We've proposed the alley would terminate right where the cursor is. Yeah. And then there would be a garage door there that would access the back side of the building, the building still in the design phase.
Speaker 7: So the size of the garage door to be determined, but there would be an access to the building there. So the Hollywood dead end of the building.
Speaker 0: So the city is giving you 1500 square feet. What what are you what are you giving back to the city? What are you giving back to the public?
Speaker 7: Sure. So I mentioned the pedestrian promenade. The pedestrian promenade picture.
Speaker 0: Of it, by the.
Speaker 7: Way. I do. So here's here's an image of what the building would look like from the this is the creek side. So what you see down here at the bottom is the creek. You see the pedestrian walkway along the creek, the ramp, and there would be a promenade along the creek beach again between Wynkoop Emwazi, which would
Speaker 7: total approximately 3700 square feet. The promenade would allow for, again, pedestrian access all the way across the property, as well as the concept for the building is that it would have some type of first floor retail and restaurant space.
Speaker 7: So the promenade would allow for outdoor dining or, you know, outdoor sales or, you know, whatever would be what would go on there.
Speaker 0: What and I understand that CBD or public works. One of our agencies asked for that.
Speaker 7: Correct? Cbd's for the promenade.
Speaker 6: Okay.
Speaker 0: Okay. And it's 3700 square feet.
Speaker 1: Yes.
Speaker 0: We're giving you 1500. Okay. That's a question to have. Councilman, do.
Speaker 6: You just have a question of public works if they're.
Speaker 1: Here? Yeah.
Speaker 0: Angela.
Speaker 6: I think they're just wanted a public works reviewed this request. And did you have any kind of difficulties with this request?
Speaker 5: Nos. A pretty straightforward application. And we reviewed it as we review all of our applications for vacation.
Speaker 6: Okay. So drug the use of the dead in L.A. then. Does that cause any problems for trash collection or anything like that?
Speaker 5: There's there's no there's no problems with any of that.
Speaker 6: Okay. Thank you very much.
Speaker 0: Okay. Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 1: Sorry. Thank you, Mr. President. Whoever prepared to answer this? So the. The building to the north. Which my understanding is, while the lot that the developer wants to build on is now access to that property is blocked off.
Speaker 1: Historically, the neighbors to the north had had that kind of open as a cut through space. Is that about right?
Speaker 7: Yes. It's our understanding from some of the neighbors that that the I think you're referring to the use of the parking lot as a cultural space. Historically, some of the neighbors had used that as a cut through space.
Speaker 7: If you're on foot, you can obviously hop the chain and walk across to Osea or Wynkoop, if you like.
Speaker 1: And the chain was down for a long time, was it not? So the tenants to the north could cut through the property there? Through that lot.
Speaker 7: The current owners owned the property for the past year and a half and the chain's been up since the current owners on the property. We actually know the former owner of the property as well. The chain sort of went down and up and so there were certainly times when the chain was down and folks could access across
Speaker 7: it. But there were also times when the chain's been up when that access has been blocked.
Speaker 1: Okay. And then I guess maybe, Angela, if there's anyone here from the fire department, so by cutting that alley off, does that present safety concerns for the people in the building to the north?
Speaker 5: So when we do these applications, they're reviewed by several utilities and several different city departments. We did not receive we did receive a letter from the fire department saying that they were okay with the configuration of what what was happening here.
Speaker 1: And what is can you describe what the access then becomes for that building to the north?
Speaker 5: So basically, this is this is a 400 foot alley which will then they're asking to vacate about 100 feet of the alley. And so it will become a 300 foot alley. You know, it'll still dead, dead end at the 300 foot mark.
Speaker 1: Okay. So they have sufficient access and egress without this.
Speaker 5: Yeah. I mean, the challenge is, is that this was platted in I think like 1879 or 59 somewhere in there. And so, I mean, this isn't something that we would historically do today, but because of the way it's platted, that's that's what we're that's what we're offering here.
Speaker 1: Thank you.
Speaker 0: All right, Councilman Flynn.
Speaker 4: Thank you. Angela, could you rise again? You told me you are here and you can speak for Rob Duncanson and right of way as well. So you're knowledgeable of all that he's knowledgeable about. Okay. And he knows and you probably know that I am a map geek and an historian.
Speaker 4: So my lesson for today in question. In 1859, Boyd's survey showed this. All these lots, all dead ending at the Cherry Creek. In other words, 14th Street historically ended to the south of here. Just to disagree with Councilman Cashman and some public works folks about the direction of our downtown streets and the blocks farther north along the
Speaker 4: creek, always dead, ended at the creek and not at 14th Street. So all these have always been dead end alleys. Correct? Yes. Okay. And interestingly to me, if no one else, the three blocks, including this one, and then up to 16th and 17th between Wynkoop and OAC on Boyd survey were shown as city parks without an alley
Speaker 4: . But my understanding is that the surveyor Ebert came back and later filed the true subdivision plat and we all have these dead end alleys. Are you familiar with the historic uses on that block? If I if I asked you, for instance, were you aware that the entire frontages on Rosie and online coupe historically had been built up
Speaker 4: from lot line to lot line all the way from 15th Street to the creek? Do you know that to be true?
Speaker 5: Well, I do know that there have been several variations.
Speaker 4: And that the buildings that were there have been torn down, but they are still private property. Right. Okay. If we did not vacate the alley, the owner of the property on either side fronting on either street would be able to build from lot line to lot line.
Speaker 5: Yes.
Speaker 4: Without providing a an access out of the dead end. Right. Okay. That's all, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: All right. Thank you, Councilman Flynn, for that historic lesson of the fine district nine and lower downtown. What else happened in 1859? That's pertinent.
Speaker 4: William Byars established the Rocky Mountain News. Okay, and allowed and allowed me to be laid off in 2009.
Speaker 0: There's one more big event that happened.
Speaker 4: Eight years ago tomorrow.
Speaker 0: Do you know the other event that happened?
Speaker 1: I believe it was the councilman's 10th birthday.
Speaker 0: And I'm going to leave it at that. This is the wheels are off the car here. Okay. Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 5: Thank you. I was going to ask the same question that Councilman Flynn did, but just to reiterate it. So if two different parties owned it, if two different parties owned each of these parking lots, they could build up to the lot line and that would the alley would still that end.
Speaker 5: So what you're talking about is just still making it a dead end alley and it's going to be shorter. Right. So my other question is the building that is sort of to the northeast that has looks like an elevated parking.
Speaker 5: Does that go over the alley? Yes. Yes, it does. All right. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you, Councilwoman Black. 1859, we became a city. I just thought that was important information, but. Okay.
Speaker 4: And Uncle Dick Wooten's saloon opened.
Speaker 0: Yes. Okay, I. I have another question for the. So. So, obviously, we're starting to understand a little bit that this is a private lot. And it's, you know, there's no technical qualifications for us to for me voting for this to deny it.
Speaker 0: But I am concerned about a alley that is blocked. A lot of cars go in there, met with some residents and they talked about, you know, having an alley that's going to be closed and not have that light come in.
Speaker 0: Are you guys willing to put lights in the alley to just make sure we have a well-lit alley?
Speaker 7: Yes, we are.
Speaker 0: Okay. And did you talk to the neighborhood about that?
Speaker 7: We did. We offered we offered lighting as well as that. We know that the neighbors also had some security concerns relating to vagrancy or whatnot in the alley. And we are also willing to put in security cameras and to monitor the alley.
Speaker 0: Okay. And the last question, we each have a huge, uh, I believe is a lawsuit on our, on our desk that we've been looking into. This is not a lawsuit against the city. This is a lawsuit with you and the neighbors.
Speaker 7: No, the neighbors have filed a lawsuit against both you, all the city and against us. It's in the form of Rule 106 action challenging the decision by the Lower Downtown Design Review Board to approve the maps form in context of the project.
Speaker 7: And the basic premise of the lawsuit is that the neighbors are alleging that they have a right of ingress and egress across Unicom's property and that by approving the maps form in context of the project, the Lower Downtown Design Review Board has interfered with that right of ingress and egress, as has been spoken to tonight.
Speaker 7: The neighbors do not have a right of ingress and egress across our our client's property. And so and they've never had a right of ingress or egress across our client's property. So we are currently working with your city attorney's office to defend that.
Speaker 0: Okay. But if I'm clear tonight, that lawsuit is not on this particular on council Bill 153. It's okay. All right. The it's been moved in, seconded all members of council. 153 is now on the floor. Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 3: Kenny Lopez. All right. New black. I clerk.
Speaker 0: I Flynn.
Speaker 3: I Gilmore. I cashin.
Speaker 1: I.
Speaker 3: Mr. President.
Speaker 0: I Please close the voting. Announce the results. Nine Ice nine Ice Council Bill 153 has been ordered publish Madam Secretary, put the next item on our screen, which is one I believe is 161. I move that council bill 161 be held in committee and brought back to the floor of council on Monday, March 20th, 2017.

Speaker 0: I Please close the voting. Announce the results. Nine Ice nine Ice Council Bill 153 has been ordered publish Madam Secretary, put the next item on our screen, which is one I believe is 161. I move that council bill 161 be held in committee and brought back to the floor of council on Monday, March 20th, 2017.
Speaker 0: It has moved it. It has been second it comments. So. Members of the public council. We had this discussion about the small lots conversation, 60 to 50 lots and trying to figure out a compromise on these. And we heard from several council members and folks in the public that there was just not enough time to consider these
Speaker 0: two competing bills put up put forward by me and our president, pro Tem Clark. And so what I am asking is that, one, we delay the first reading of this bill to March 20th, and we also extend the moratorium, and the moratorium will be voted on in a block its it's council bill 277 until May 20th.
Speaker 0: And I wanted to give everyone May 26. I want to give everyone a new date calendar of which things will take place. So tonight we will be filing a 60 day moratorium extension February 27th, on Monday, March 20th.
Speaker 0: First reading will be of the small parking lot text amendment and that it will be the second reading for the 60 day moratorium extension because you'll need 30 days there on April 17th. Second reading of the small lot parking text amendment will happen and that will also be the public hearing.
Speaker 0: And then May 26, the moratorium will expire. So that's what I am proposing to members of Council to give us about 60 more days to have conversation. We will have this in committee, in the luti committee, unfortunately. Councilwoman Sussman and Councilman New will not be available, but I can chair that committee and we will have a longer
Speaker 0: discussion on small lots. If that is acceptable, please vote in favor of of Council Bill 161. It's been moved in second. Any more comments? Madam Secretary, roll call.
Speaker 6: Clarke I.
Speaker 3: Flynn I. Gilmore I. Cashman I can eat. Lopez I knew with black eye. Mr. President.
Speaker 0: I was wondering as a.
Speaker 3: Result. Nine eyes.
Speaker 0: Nine eyes. Constable 161 has been held in committee till Monday, March 20/20, 2017. Okay, this concludes all the other items that need to be called out and looked down to make sure we got it right. All right, Councilman Clark.
Speaker 0: Yeah. That's all the items. Okay. All of the bills for introductions are order published. We're now ready for the block. Votes on resolutions and bills on final consideration. Council members, please remember that this is a consent or a block vote and you will need to vote.
Speaker 0: Otherwise, this is your last chance to call out an item for a separate vote. Councilman. Clerk, will you please put resolutions for adoption and the bills on final consideration for final passage on floor?
Speaker 6: Yes, Mr. President, I move that resolutions be adopted and bills on final consideration be placed upon final consideration, and do pass in a walk for the following items. 147 154 164 165 166 146 157 158 134 and 123.
Speaker 0: All right. It has been moved in second it matter. Secretary Roll Call.
Speaker 3: Black Eye Clerk I Flynn.
Speaker 1: I.
Speaker 3: Gilmore I Cashman I can eat.
Speaker 5: Lopez I knew Mr. President.
Speaker 0: I please close voting in US results. 99 ays resolutions have been adopted and the bills have been placed upon final consideration and do pass since there are no public hearings tonight, I heard somebody say, Hey man, there are no objections from members of council.

Speaker 3: 161 Bill for an ordinance of the Denver Zoning Code to revise parking exemptions for preexisting small zone lots to 77 bill for an ordinance providing for an extension of approximately two months of an existing moratorium enacted by Ordinance 20160498 series of 2016 prohibiting the use of the Denver zoning code.
Speaker 3: Preexisting small zone lot parking exemption for certain projects.
Speaker 0: All right, Councilwoman, can each. We need a motion to suspend the rules on council to allow for the introduction of a late filing.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. I move that the rules of procedure be suspended to allow for the introduction of Council Bill 156 approving a $4 million supplemental appropriation to the Office of Economic Development to support the business incentive funds.
Speaker 5: Support of a general merchandise small retail store on the 16th Street Mall at 1601 California Street.
Speaker 0: All right, it has. It's been moving second it. Thank you. Councilwoman Denise, do you want to make comments? And I'm happy to make comments as well.
Speaker 5: Yes. Thank you, Mr. President. I am making this motion as chair of the Finance and Governance Committee, where this bill moved through with our intention that it be on the floor today. Due to staff miscommunication, it was not filed in time, but I believe it was the committee's intent that it be on the floor tonight.
Speaker 5: And so that is why I'm making this motion count.
Speaker 0: Very well done. Councilwoman Camille, I think, summarized it. This is just a mistake. And it was a council's full intention in the Finance Committee to make sure this was on the floor. And so we need a unanimous vote to suspend these rules and make sure that we can have the conversation on the floor right now.
Speaker 0: So it has been moved. And second, I say, Councilman Flynn, you're up.
Speaker 4: Thanks, Fred. Just a quickly, could you tell us what the mistake was or what occurred and how that can be avoided in the future? Because these these kinds of votes are very rare.
Speaker 0: Yeah. So I believe this is between OED and the Department of Finance. And one department didn't know when the other department was supposed to file and not file. So this is actually coming out of the Department of Finance.
Speaker 0: However, the bill is located in OED. So they they know they've apologized. And so we're moving forward with a thank you, Councilman Flynn. All right. It's been moved and segmented. Okay. So we put resolutions 163. It should be 156.
Speaker 3: Yes.
Speaker 0: Okay. This should be resolution 156, for the record. There was a mistake on a typo on this and it is correct on our screens. 156 So, Madam Secretary.
Speaker 1: Mr. President.
Speaker 4: Point Are we, we're voting on suspending the rules right now. Correct. Okay. Thank you. Yep.
Speaker 0: Okay. Council members, again, this is Council Bill 156 and we're voting on suspending these rules has been moved and seconded. Secretary Roll Call.
Speaker 3: Can each. LOPEZ All right, new black clerk. All right.
Speaker 1: Flynn I.
Speaker 3: Gillmor I heard in. Cashman. I Mr. President.
Speaker 0: I please close the voting, announce the results.
Speaker 3: Nine eyes.
Speaker 0: Nine eyes. That Resolutions 156 may be introduced. Madam Secretary, you will read the resolution title.
Speaker 3: From Finance and governance 156 Bill for an ordinance making supplemental appropriations from the General Contingency Fund to the General Government Special Revenue Fund.
Speaker 0: All right, councilmembers, this is your last opportunity to call it an item. Councilman Clark, will you please make the motions this evening?
Speaker 6: Yes, Mr. President.
Speaker 0: All right, I'll do a quick recap. Under resolutions. Councilman Flynn has called out Resolution 163 for a comment. Is that 163 or 156? Okay. All right. For comment under Bill for introduction, I've called out Council Bill 153 for a vote.
Speaker 0: I've called out Counsel Bill 161 to hold in committee for one week until March six under Bill's for final consideration. We have nothing under pending. We have nothing matter. Madam Secretary.
Speaker 5: Mr. President, I apologize. I would like to have 163 and 156 for a vote. They could be together in a block. And I because of making the late filing motion, I kind of forgot to do the link through them, and I apologize for that.
Speaker 5: If we need to vote on them separately, that's. Yeah.
Speaker 0: Madam Secretary, can we put 156 and 163 in a block, please?
Speaker 5: Yes.
Speaker 0: All right, great. We'll make a note of that. Okay. Madam Secretary, please put up the first one. 163. Councilman Flynn, go ahead and make your comment.
Speaker 4: Thank you, Mr. President. 163 is an agreement between the Office of Economic Development and a development entity on the 16th Street Mall to develop or redevelop the old California Mall property right at 16th in California. And I remember it as the old food court.
Speaker 4: You go up to the second floor, and when I saw this come across, it gave me a lot of heartburn, Mr. President, because it would bring a new a very good tenant to the mall, one that I think it would be great, wonderful addition catalytic to what I call upto our sort of answer to LoDo.
Speaker 4: This is up doe and but it was target and I have nothing against Target Corporation. Personally I shop there on occasion, but as some folks may recall, Target had a very wonderful outlet in my district at Sheridan and Evans.
Speaker 4: And when when Target opened in Belmar, in the Belmar redevelopment in Lakewood, they closed the Target in my district. That alone doesn't give me the heartburn because that's a business decision. But when they left and sold it to an operator who now operates a 99 cent store there, I say we don't even get a dollar store down
Speaker 4: in my district. We get $0.99 store. They put a deed restriction on the property that it could not be used for 20 years for a general merchandise retailer of 50,000 square feet or greater. And I know from my predecessor, Councilwoman Jeanie Fox, that on at least three occasions a national retailer has looked at that property and has
Speaker 4: walked away from redeveloping it because of the deed restriction. However, in the in the course of dealing with this, I was able to meet with guard properties, which is the owner of the California Mall and would be the actual entity with whom we're partnering here, not Target.
Speaker 4: And I'm very happy to say that they've genuinely outreach to us and they have helped us down in southwest Denver to do market research, to identify potential retailers and possibly even to look at the property as a potential redevelopment.
Speaker 4: So for the first time in the five or six years since Target left there, we have some we have some interest. I understand the property may also even be on the market now. So given the genuine promise to continue working with us.
Speaker 4: Mr. President, I will vote yes on this and and plan on that cooperation continuing. Thank you.
Speaker 0: Thank you. Councilman Flynn. Councilman.
Speaker 5: Thank you, Mr. President. I have been very aware of how hard the downtown community has worked to attract retail to this location. It has been a conversation as long as I have been on the council. Not maybe not this particular location, but the vicinity of the 16th Street Mall.
Speaker 5: And so I don't take lightly the concerns about how to make downtown an attractive destination, to fulfill the needs of the residents and the workers who are downtown. And, you know, I have not, without some consternation, supported some types of redevelopment assistance in this city's history that have involved retail.
Speaker 5: And, you know, particularly with tax increment financing, it's never been easy. Each deal I take one by one. But overall, I have great concern when we are using city dollars to subsidize retail. It is a non economically sustainable job in our city.
Speaker 5: For the most part, the average jobs at this site will be 25 hours a week, which is not a full time salary. So even if the wage is slightly above the minimum wage, when you add up the hours, it will keep most families below the poverty line.
Speaker 5: And we as a city end up having to step in then with childcare assistance and health care assistance and other things. And that's not unique to this location and it's not unique to this retailer. But I do have concerns about using the Business Investment Fund for this purpose.
Speaker 5: The city has been very disciplined in using the business investment fund, almost with the exception of one other retail job, a retail investment for jobs that are higher than the median wage. And I've appreciated that discipline. It is what kept me supportive of this fund for the period of time.
Speaker 5: I really struggled with this one and really looked at each a piece of the deal. And I, you know, I would have maybe almost gotten there, but the fact that this agreement is not directly with the retailer and does not give us any privity of contract with them, we do have a history of retailers.