Meeting: DenverCityCouncil_02212017
Date: 2017-02-21

---

Speaker 2: 11 Eyes, Resolution 109 has been adopted as amended. All right, Madam Secretary King, please pull up 161 on small lots. All right. Comes from Sussan. Will you please put council bill 161 on the floor.
Speaker 9: I move that council bill 161 be ordered published.
Speaker 2: All right. It has been moved. And second, if I move the council bill 161 be held in committee and brought back to the floor council on Monday, February 27th. And I want to give a couple reasons for this and having this conversation with many council members.
Speaker 2: In talking to Councilman Clark, we're hearing a lot of folks need some time to really review some of these amendments, but more importantly, the public needs some time to review. So here is is my thought in this is that we would postpone this bill for one week.
Speaker 2: And on Thursday, I would file an extension of the moratorium for 60 days. One of the reasons we wanted to file an extension again is for more public commentary on the amendments that is being put forward by Councilman Clark and Councilman Espinosa.
Speaker 2: And others have said, you know, there's folks in our district who has not who have not had a chance to really go through this particular proposal and see how it affects them. And so we're going to do that as well during that time.
Speaker 2: And so we thought this would be appropriate, obviously, just to let the general public know we set this moratorium, I believe was in August for nine months and March 27th, 31st. March 31st is the date that the moratorium will be up.
Speaker 2: And so we're running against the clock here and folks aren't getting the time that they need to fully understand how the moratorium affects them. And so we thought it important to give a little bit more time and to be very clear that we intend to lift the moratorium and have a conversation going forward on what the proposal
Speaker 2: will be and vote on council. Councilman Clark.
Speaker 8: Yeah, I just wanted to thank you, Mr. President, for bringing this word. I think more time will add to the great dialog and debate that we've been having in committee. And I just really appreciate you putting this on the floor.
Speaker 2: Thank you, Councilman Espinosa. Similarly, I'd like to express my appreciation and the prudent sort of amount of time. I think that's that that's more than enough to sort of get the adequate input from District one constituents. So I truly appreciate it and thanks, Council.
Speaker 2: Councilwoman Canete.
Speaker 6: Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote to support the one week delay. I guess I had one question. I do not serve on Ludy. I'm doing my best to stay up when I can attend and to read materials.
Speaker 6: But one item that I did ask for from some of the zoning staff and I see we have a couple of folks, but I'm not quite sure who the staffer is for this.
Speaker 2: Particular proposal that Jeff heard is an audience.
Speaker 5: Thank you.
Speaker 6: Mr. Hurd, if you could, please, I would love to see an analysis of how many of the parcels are in commercial areas. So much of our debate has focused on residential, but some of these lots are in areas that are either, you know, solely commercial or primarily commercial.
Speaker 6: And so I just would be very helped if you could share that information prior to, you know, when we're it sounds like with a 60 day delay will will be a ways out from debating it, but that's some information that would be helpful to me.
Speaker 2: Thank you. And Jeff, I think we have a lot of that information in the percentages that my proposal or our proposal would affect some of these lots. And so we'll get that right over to you. Thank you, Councilwoman Black.
Speaker 4: Since we're. Making suggestions. I would like to hear from historic Denver, and I'd also like to hear from some affordable housing advocates and how they think this might impact that discussion one way or another.
Speaker 2: Great. And we have two representatives. We had an Annie Levinsky, which was on our stakeholder committee, and also had a affordable housing representative as well. And so we can get both of those folks to testify as well at the hearing so that you can hear their analysis of what they think about this.
Speaker 2: Councilman Cashman.
Speaker 8: Thank you, Mr. President. While we're giving out, thanks for the process and I echo what's been said before, I just want to add my thanks to the neighborhood representatives who have really, I think, been the moving force from the beginning about bringing this to council attention and for just pushing for council to do a thorough job on
Speaker 8: assessing all opportunities to get these lots developed with a minimal as minimal an impact as possible on surrounding neighborhoods. We have some representatives over here and thank you all for coming tonight and for the work you've been doing all along.
Speaker 8: Thank you, Mr. President.
Speaker 2: Thank you. Councilman. Councilman Cashman. I'll just make one more comment in in conjunction with Councilwoman Sussman in the next month, we can kind of talk about what needs to have other further conversations in committee, if you'd be open to that simply.
Speaker 2: Okay. And on next Monday, we'll give you all a full schedule of how we intend to proceed, as well as the moratorium bill. That will be a moratorium extension that will be filed on Thursday, and then we'll be talking about it on Monday.
Speaker 2: So the folks are clear, you know, when the exact meetings are, when they can come to public hearings and things like that, if there are no other comments. Madam Secretary, Roll Call.
Speaker 5: Clerk Hi, Espinosa. Hi, Flynn. Hi, Gilmore. I question.
Speaker 8: I.
Speaker 5: Can each. Lopez. I Ortega. I Sussman. I Clark. Mr. President.
Speaker 2: I please call the voting list, close the voting and announce the results.
Speaker 5: 11 Eyes.
Speaker 2: 11 Eyes Council Bill 161 has been held in committee till Monday, February 27th and come back to the floor. All right. This concludes our items being called out. All other bills for introductions are to publish. We are now ready for the block votes on resolutions and final consideration.
Speaker 2: Council members, please remember that this is a consent or block vote and you will need to vote. Otherwise, this is your last chance to call on an item for a separate vote. Councilwoman Sussman, will you please put the resolution on the floor for adoption and the bills for final consideration for final passage on the floor?
Speaker 9: Yes, Mr. President, I move. The resolution has to be adopted, and bills on final consideration be placed upon final consideration and do pass in a block for the following items. Resolution. So far, all of them of 2017. Resolution 86, 87, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 100, 101 102 103 104 105 106
Speaker 9: 119 120 127 128 118 124 one 3121 126 129 one 3382 All changed over to bills also of 20 1782 one, 11, 79, 80, 81, 83 and that looks like it.
Speaker 2: Good job. It has been moved and seconded. Madam Secretary.
Speaker 5: Roll Call Black Eye Clerk by Espinosa. Hi Flynn.
Speaker 2: Hi.
Speaker 5: Gilmore I question I can eat I Lopez All right. Ortega, I Susman I Mr. President.
Speaker 2: I please cause of very nice results.
Speaker 5: 11 eyes.